PWAD - DVII.WAD
FILE - dvii-21-1609-pw.lmp
Type - UV Max
Map  - 21
Port - PrBoom+ 2.4.8.1
Plr  - Belial

Kills   - 103%
Items   - 32%
Secrets - 100%

Time    - 16:09

Description:

Damn there sure are plenty of cathedrals in hell :P This one may be less epic
than the one from the original DV when it comes to the sheer size of the main
hall, but it sure is a lot more complex in both layout and architecture. This
is the only map that can rival map19 in terms of complexity and connectivity,
but it does so in a completely different fashion. The majority of the areas are
instantly accessible even if you don't use the magical shortcut intended for demo
recording, which leaves most of the route choices in the hands of the player.
There are no limits on progressing through the map in whichever way you please
since the only thing you are forced to do is getting two keys to open up the exit.
All of this can be summed up in one sentence: coming up with a good route is a 
nightmare on par with dv02.

Now this is where the brief description of the route was supposed to go, but for
this map it would be anything but brief so I'll just give some general thoughts here.
You get the BFG right away so use it as often as you can, but keep in mind that
outside the central section ammo for it will be scarce so make sure you make the
shots count and keep a healthy supply of rockets to fall back on in case your cells
start running low. Getting the main fight over with quickly will let you use the
supplies placed there to safely restock at each visit. If you play it right you 
should have one spare invulnerability, so use that to your advantage in whichever
way you see fit. There's nothing more annoying that can happen in this map than 
getting blocked by lost souls on the way to the afrit secret at the manc curve. 
Afrit attacks hurt like hell :P The library is the easiest section of the map so I
leave it for last. Finally, always make sure the secrets you visit get triggered.

This demo is a second exit with some route improvements over the previous demo.
I used to start with the west wing and get all the way through to the cyber tower
section before doing the blue key fight and activating the main fight, using the
time when the monsters keep pouring in to clear out part of the library, leaving
the secret room with the cacos for later. I didn't like how I couldn't time it
right with the barriers lowering in the main hall so I looked for other plays
that would be more appropriate. I found that getting through some parts of the
west wing take me almost as long as it takes the barriers to lower, letting me
cut down the time spent on spamming rockets. I also deal with the manc curve
more efficiently in this run, putting the teleporter in one of the pillars to
some good use.

Przemyslaw "Belial" Woda
nowylepszyszatan@wp.pl