Runner: Zero-Master
Date: 2015-10-03
IWAD: DOOM.wad
Category: UV-Speed
Map: Episode 1 (E1M1-E1M8)
Source Port: Competition Doom v2.0.3.2
Time Without M8: 4:57 (05:01.00)
Time With    M8: 6:08 (06:12.34)

----------------------------------------------------------------
Level			Map	Time		ep1-0500

Hangar                  E1M1 -	0:12		 0:00
Nuclear Plant  	        E1M2 -	0:23		-0:01
Toxin Refinery 	        E1M3 -	0:45		+0:02
Command Control		E1M4 -	0:17		-0:02
Phobos Lab 	        E1M5 -	1:01		 0:00
Central Processing	E1M6 -	1:04		-0:01
Computer Station	E1M7 -	1:15		-0:01
Phobos Anomaly		E1M8 -	1:11		-0:06
----------------------------------------------------------------
			TOTAL -	6:08		-0:09
E1M8 comparison is not relevant. E1M1-E1M7 time is improved by 3 seconds.

Description: 
This is a 3 second improvement over ep1-0500 by stx-Vile, a record set over 10 years ago.

The episode 1 run is very complicated, as it has a high monster density in many places.
A great deal of time is needed to figure out how to properly manipulate the monsters 
and which weapons to use so that you can as quickly and consistent as possible move through everything.

So if you don't plan this very carefully you will get blocked off by monsters at
every hallway and every corner. 

Many who pick up doom speedrunning for the first time start with this run,
a terrible choice in my opinion :) I would rather recommend episode 2, or
maybe episode 3 if you don't care too much about your time on the first map.
They are both easier and more forgiving in terms of difficulty, as in
reaching the exit alive.

It's common to use the ExM1-ExM7 times even though it's no longer needed with sourceports, 
I write down all the times for easy comparison with the previous record in competn.
E1M1-E1M8 is easy to beat using a different route, though since the M8 time doesn't
appear in vanilla it's the ExM1-ExM7 time which is considered for episode record. 

Thanks to the previous runners like stx-Vile and Adam Williamson, the route is largely
based on their runs.

E1M1: Not too difficult to get 12 seconds here, my best time was a 12.11 
I think, so it is possible to get 11 seconds, but it's very difficult, 
much harder than for example 5 seconds on map 1 of doom 2.

I shoot before grabbing mega armor since 1 of the shotgunners wakes up,
I like his position better in this case, not really necessary.


E1M2: The first door is really luck based, this time I kind of got it. 
A time of 23 seconds here is my best time, though I could have 
easily had some 22 seconds at some point in my attempts.

There is a good possiblity the imp at the exit goes down the elevator, 
which is really annoying. Though it might be possible to prevent it if you go 
slowly from the right side since it wakes up the zombieman first which
should prevent the imp from bumping into him and going down the elevator.


E1M3: Before and after blue key door was a mess here. I got really luck 
in BK area so I didn't lose too much time. Quite a hard map, and a lot of 
it has to do with the demons being very good at blocking you. 


E1M4: So a pretty "big" change here to the route used by stx-Vile and Adam Williamson, 
Every single person I've watched try episode 1 always follows the route that goes 
to the right, this is a big mistake. No doubt that everyone that does this has had
several times where they lose time to not being able to open the yellow key door.

There is an elevator in the room forward to the left from where you start, if the 
elevator is activated you cannot open the yellow key door. However, you never
actually use the elevator so obviously there are some monsters that activate it.
These monsters are the ones that you pass at the start, so I try to kill 1 of 
them while going past them, that leaves 4 of them that would have to wander 
to the room, but since I also went to left at the start so they take more time to 
reach that room, and I almost always get to open the yellow key door this way. 

16 seconds is not hard to get, usually it's 50\50 if I get 16 or 17, assuming I don't fail the trick.

There is also a different route for this map, which skips the YK, you can run to the right
instead of trying to go for the jump, and you can instead go for a much harder trick. 

With SR50 you can make the jump to the exit door, though it is quite random at times.
It's very difficult since you can get blocked and you need to find the right angle,
and even then it might fail.


E1M5: Insane time for me, I never expect to match Vile's time on this map.
It all comes down to getting the elevator, and this was perfect luck.

It's impossible to get consistent good times on this map, there is simply
no way to manipulate the demons to let you through more often than not.
 
I even threw away about 2 seconds in the end, so could have been a really amazing time.


E1M6: I almost let the shotgunner go too far, if he doesn't block the door you have
to wait some 30 seconds, obviously ending the run.

And where the hell did that spectre come from, I have never had him block me there before.
Also I've made quite some changes regarding rocket usage at the end of the map.

I expect to save a few seconds on this map if everything goes well, not too happy about this time.
Usually I get 1:00 if everything goes really well, which never happens in a run anyways :)


E1M7: Insane time again for me, I did not expect to save time here, 
but I don't expect to lose much time either.

Really good luck with the red key area, that went a lot more smooth that it usually does.
I also managed to hit a really good rocket on the imps before I went on the elevator after RK.

I used a rocket close to the exit, not supposed to do that. When I went for the YK 
on E1M7 I used 4 rockets instead of 5, which means I usually don't pick up the backpack 
behind the yellow key, but since I did I had 1 left over. So I used it and maybe wasted a second.


E1M8: I pick up the bullets at the start, as I don't want to use the shotgun. 
No rockets leftover either. A E1M1-E1M8 route would pick up 11 rockets at E1M6, 
which should save about 20+ seconds or so on total time, I'm not sure.

It felt like these barons had a lot more health than usual, watching the demo in a 
different sourceport it was pretty obvious it was the spectres taking a lot of the bullets. 

I got jump in the end, though it's very easy to make. I haven't looked into the 
new void glide that has been discovered for this map, but since it requires some monsters
cooperation I don't expect it to be any consistent.
