Runner: Zero-Master
Date: 2017-11-07
PWAD: AV.wad
Category: UV-Speed
Map: Movie 1-30
Source Port: Crispy Doom v4.3
Time: 1:33:21
	
Map 	Time
01	00:49
02	00:54
03	00:49
04	02:06
05	01:38
06	02:09
07	01:26
08	03:00
09	01:19
10	03:26
11	01:19
12	01:46
13	04:12
14	07:10
15	04:06
16	03:53
17	02:14
18	03:48
19	04:54
20	02:48
21	02:34
22	02:11
23	01:13
24	01:47
25	01:40
26	06:14
27	06:45
28	11:01
29	04:26
30	01:44

Description:
This was my first attempt at this category, not sure if practice paid off
or if I practiced too much :) A few close calls, some lucky moments which
made certain areas seem easy, some terrible mistakes and alot of careful 
(slow) play during the end. 

I was hoping it would be under 90 minutes after my last practice run was 
just above it, maybe I could revisit this category in the future and play a bit
more aggressive towards the end. The first levels were not too bad, but definitely
a lot of time wasted on the later levels.

Map 01: I grab some of the secrets here to make the start a bit easier.

Map 02: Just SSG down everything and do a yellow key grab, which is easier
with SR40.

Map 03: It's probably possible to do this map much faster by trying to get
the glide before getting killed.

Map 04: I very much expect to die at the end of this map, so I wanted to take
it slower as well so that I have enough armor for the last section. Of course
I end up with no armor and instead just get really lucky by taking almost no damage.

Map 05: Again I clear a lot of monsters, if I try to rush this I'm probably dead,
and I did drop to 20 health after a max damage revenant rocket.

Map 06: I'd say this is the map I'm most likely do die on. The start went pretty
well, but then I got to the part where I wanted to grab the invulnerability and 
I dropped to 4 health. Then I got blasted off by the cyberdemon before I could pick
up the berserk and the cells.

Map 07: Good start, didn't waste too many rockets. The plan was to BFG the revenants,
but I was low on cells so I didn't want to waste any, almost got me killed.
The jump at the end isn't too difficult, but if I don't hit SR50 then I die.

Map 08: Dropped down to 10 health after hitting the wall with a rocket. I pressed
fire and saw the demon getting really close, so I knew I was going to take damage 
if I hit him and my instinct is to turn away in those situations. Obviously I had 
nowhere to turn to so I probably took more damage than if I just hit the demon.

Could have easily died trying to get to the other area from there. 

Map 09: Could have skipped the soulsphere here, or maybe grabbed the mega armor on 
this map instead of the other one.

Map 10: Took some time to get the right setup for the RJ, because you bounce around
so much and there aren't any other corners that work well nearby. It's also possible
to get the jump by going along the edges, but it's 20% damage floor.

Quite a long map, but mostly straightforward, 2 BFG's on the mastermind always to 
make sure I don't lose too much health for the RJ on the next level.

Map 11: I would have no idea what to do on this map if I don't get the rocket jump. 

Map 12: During practice I once managed to run past the 2 barons in the hallway
on this level and have 1 of them remain idle. I had no idea you could run past
such a large gap (160 units?) and not wake up a monster, this is what got me
to a pa02 discussion thread on doomworld and got me to look into and eventually
finish pa02.

This middle part of the level is very dangerous, but good use of plasma should
make it easy.

Map 13: I have to admit I'm a bit afraid of cyberdemons, they will end your run
instantly if they hit you and you never know when you can get blocked by some random 
demon. The further I am into a run the more I fear them, as map 28 will show.

I manage to grab the megasphere with a wallrun. The arch-vile that spawn after the
yellow key can throw you off which would be very unfortunate.

Map 14: I grab yellow key first so that I can grab the megasphere before going 
for the other keys, I don't need to save it for the next map.

Not sure how many of the demons I actually need to kill in the acid pit, but I 
leave some alive so that I can both get through and have them take a few cyberdemon 
rockets. After that I go and grab the blue key where I activate the door first 
and just wait for it to open. It's possible to grab the blue key without activating 
the door by doing 2 linedef skips, but this requires a quick setup for the first one 
and the somewhat precise rocket boost for the second one.

Red key cyberdemon was not too bad, the arch-viles however were just stupid, 
terrible BFG's and just a bad weapon choice, pointless waste of time and I still got hit.

Map 15: Messed up some simple skip here with the wall, must have gone too far 
forward and triggered it. Everything here is straightforward until the last area 
where I just activate the linedef for the wall first and just wait for it to go down.
I wake up the cyberdemon and wait for him to move to a part of the map where he is
hopefully blocked by demons.

Map 16: The start was not the best, but I cleared the revenants without taking too much
damage and I got past the cyberdemons without getting blocked too much.

Map 17: There's just so little room to deal with this cyberdemon, I prefer to just try 
and keep him locked in. I felt confident he wouldn't be able to hit me even though
it looked kind of close at the end.

Map 18: I have lots of health and ammo for this map, so everything went well until
the end where I wasn't concentrating and nearly died. Overall very lucky as I didn't 
take much if any damage from the mastermind, then at 67 health I took 56 damage which 
would have to have been a fireball, if I was a bit closer it would be melee and I could
take 70 or 80 damage. Then I nearly died before the megasphere, overall just really lucky.

After the megasphere I usually have 200\200 with 100 rocket and 600 cells.

Map 19: At this point I have to manage my rockets and cells a bit. Not much to say about 
this map, it's possible to get the red key with a rocket jump. I was hoping to include most 
tricks in this run even if it is more dangerous, but this was just too precise. I couldn't
manage to find a setup which gave me 2 tics to time the rocket.

Not sure how close I was from taking a cyberdemon rocket at the end.

Map 20: Save some ammo at the start by just using SSG and I grab some rockets by
the hellknights near the "end" of the map. I feel a bit bad by skipping such a large 
part of this map, but at least I don't have to deal with any cyberdemon or do any rocket
jumps. 

This uses the recently discovered trick which is to activate switches through walls. 
The gap is 40 units from the switch to the wall that I am facing, which is the largest 
gap that I am aware of that is actually possible. In order to do this I have to get 
perfectly close to the wall so that I am at the .000000 coordinate, then I turn to a 
certain angle where I push my mouse the smallest amount possible to do a MF1 command.

I failed this first and so I had to do it again, I pushed just a bit too much.

Map 21: Not a big fan of this map, long corridors packed with mid-tier monsters. 
Mostly afraid I'll rocket myself at some point.

Map 22: I never press the right switch first, hell I could have pressed both since 
nothing will teleport into the room as I don't wake up the monsters.

Map 23: A bit slow start, but I want to make sure I get the arch-vile jump without
getting blocked.

Map 24: Also a slow start, I want to make sure everything is dead so they don't hit me
while I setup for the rocket jump, or especially in the middle of the rocket jump.

Map 25: 1300+ monsters and I just skip everything. Probably didn't need to waste so
much time with the first cyberdemon.

Map 26: I cannot believe how amazing the glide on the way out of the blue room was,
I was expecting to easily waste minutes here trying to get through. 

Very dangerous map, I start by getting the blue key by doing gliding through. 
I took more damage than what I would have liked, but nothing too bad. The problem 
with the glide getting out is that it is in the east direction, and not only that, it 
also has some dark moving water textures which makes finding the correction position
a really annoying task, truly the ultimate glide test.

I then grab an invulnerability to clear some shit out and kill the cyberdemon that 
is on the last invulnerability that I will be taking. Then I get the second one and go 
for the yellow key, grab the last one and the last key and exit. Hopefully I don't
get delayed anywhere or I might be dead.

Map 27: Enormous map, fortunately I can skip most of the ending. Most of it is quite easy, 
Try not to get hit by the cyberdemon or take too make projectiles from the mancs\HKs.

Map 28: I get the imp to infight the cyberdemon, of course I completely screwed up the BFG's 
and then I decided to waste 50 rockets trying to kill him. Mostly just taking things slow from 
here and try to save rockets\cells. I was thinking of skipping the second cyberdemon by just 
activating the switch from below, but 1 time during practice I bounced off the entrance to
the room above and straight into his rockets, so he had to die.

Not much to say about everything up to the next cyberdemon, which I tried to kill, but
he moved too far away after the first BFG. I wanted to kill him, but I had the opportunity
to get around safely in the end. So at this point I'm low on health and ammo, then I manage
to take get surprised by one of the revenants. 

The last cyberdemon was very lucky, I killed the demons outside of the room so I could
sneak up on the switch. I then screwed up my movement and I am quite sure he could have easily 
killed me there.

Map 29: Very confused on this map, after the ledge at the start of the map I skipped a linedef
which opens up a wall. Connected to that room is the arch-viles and chaingunners and since it was
closed they never woke up. I had no idea and I really didn't want to get surprised so I spent too
much time making sure they wouldn't spawn. Had I known I would have used it intentionally like 
the one at the green armor room.

Map 30: I wasn't sure if I wanted to go for the 2 or 3 cycle here. I figured maybe I'd screw up
the 2 cycle more often then if I just do it in 3 cycles. Just avoid the telefrag and don't waste 
cells too often (and don't run off the edge!), shouldn't be that difficult.


