

		H A R M O N Y 

		 version 1.1



1: DESCRIPTION
-------------- 
Harmony is an independent game made by Thomas van der Velden.
It is inspired on 3D shooter games from the nineties like Doom and
Duke Nukem 3D. Harmony uses the free Zdoom engine, which was made 
to mimic and enhance id Software’s Doom2 engine.

Harmony works under: Windows 95/98/ME/NT/2000/XP and Vista.



2: HOW TO PLAY
--------------
To play Harmony double click on “HARMONY.exe”.

The game will then start by itself.



3: STORY
--------
In the near future:
Led by greed and hatred mankind drove itself into another world war.
The forces of the Northern and Southern Hemisphere attacked 
Each other with everything their destructive arsenal had to offer.
Nuclear, chemical and biological weapons wiped out entire countries.
The combined effect of the weapons resulted in an unforeseen side effect; 
a supervirus emerged that mutated all the men on Earth. 
For unknown reasons the women were unaffected. 
But they weren't save either...

The mutated men, though intelligent, lost touch with reality. 
From their corrupted minds a new order was formed; 'the Pax Pox'. 
Its first priority is to rid the world of the "impure". 

The women who survived the war united to form an army against the mutant 
aggressors and called themselves "the Amazons".  
	
Today one of the Amazon outposts is attacked and their leader; Amira is 
taken captured. Her last hope is her loyal friend; Harmony.

Will Harmony be able to rescue her friend and the rest of the human race?



4: CHANGES SINCE VERSION 1.0.1
------------------------------
Harmony version 1.1 	vs 	Harmony version 1.0.1 
[10-12-2009] 			[01-11-2009]


- All wads (and deh) were merged into 1 wad named Harm1.wad making it:
	1- easier to play Harmony with mods and add-ons. 
	2- easier to play Harmony with other source ports.
- Included autoexec.cfg to ensure compatibility (with Windows Vista).
- Map names are now consistent.
- Jumping and crouching is now impossible (due to 'mapinfo').
- put "version 1.1" on the title picture.
- Added PAR times on intermission screens.
- Fixed missing patch errors at startup.
- Implemented better difficulty settings (map06 had none).
- Fixed the height of 'self-destruct' explosions in map07.
- Cleaned up Harmony sprites.
- Brushed up textures RW48-2 and RW48-4.
- Fixed missing flat (cratop1) in map04.
- Shotgun is raised instead of appearing instantly.
- Updated the text file.



5: MAP INFO
----------- 
map names:

01: Abduction 	
02: Harm's way 	
03: Owt mood    	
04: Megalapolis		
05: the Hospital
06: the Weapons factory	
07: the underground lab 
08: Airstrip one	
09: the Launch base	
10: the Radioactive zone		
11: Echidna		



6: EDITORS USED & CREDITS
-------------------------
I`d like to thank the creators of: 

	DOOM2   	        (the best game ever made, without which 
				Harmony would not exist),
	ZDoom v2.3.1		(provided the free engine for Harmony)	

	DCK             	(used for map-building),
	Doom Builder v1.66	(used for map-building),
     	NWT             	(used to transfer textures),	
	XWE v1.16		(used to transfer graphics and sounds; 
				 create palette and several features),
	WhackEd2 v0.60		(used to create the deh file), 
	Doomfont v2.1b		(aided with making of text graphics)
	Imagetool		(used to make font files in 6zharm.wad)

	GIMP 2.6		(use to make graphics)
	Corel Paint     	(used to make textures),
	Ultimate Paint [demo]   (used to edit digital photograps for 
				the sprites),
	MS Paint		(used to edit graphics),
	Anim8or v0.9 		(used to create 3D models for some of
				the sprites),

	Goldwave [demo version]	(used to edit sound files),  
	the Wav files I used	(I used Wav files from various sources, 
				which are listed in the sounds.txt file).	

	Bat to Exe Converter	(used to make old HARMONY.exe file)
	HxD Hex Editor		(used to edit the exe file)
	IconChanger [demo]	(used to edit the exe file)
	


Many thanks to playtesters:

	* "Space is green"

	* People of the Doomworld forums who provided additional feed-back.


Special credits go out to:
		
	* Kyu for the great MP3 music. 
	They fit the game very well and I feel lucky to use them.    

	* "Space is green" for making the cool high resolution ending 
	picture ('BOSSBACK' harm1.wad). 

	* "Space is green", Tineke and Diana for assisting
	me in making hundreds of digital pictures for the monster sprites.
	
	* Enjay, who helped me with the mapinfo lump and answered all my
	Zdoom related questions. 

	* The (Z)Doom community for your answers to my questions. 
		
	* The Doom community for your (indirect) inspiration.
	In particular: ACE team Software, (the late) Epsi, Justin Fisher, 
	Gusta, Metabolist, Scientist (aka Space is green) and the Ultimate
	Doomer. Also the late graphic artist Don Punchatz who made the 
	inspiring cover art and logo for the game Doom. 

	* The people hosting websites where Harmony can be downloaded for
	free. In particular DRD Team Share Space, from which Harmony version
	1.0.1 has already been downloaded 6300 times.



7: MUSIC
--------
All music tracks were made by Kyu/KERBERENES Antoine and are being 
used for Harmony with permission. 

Two weeks before the release of Harmony I was still in need of music.
Fortunately Kyu allowed me to use 3 of his tracks which fit Harmony very well.
Unfortunately there was no more time to add other tracks to the selection 
so the available material had to be recycled in the game. 

All music tracks fall under a Creative Commons license : 
BY - No Commercial Use - No Modification. All tracks are under 
copyright of Kyu/KERBERENES Antoine. Further authorizations 
and questions can be asked at kyuu_k@hotmail.fr

The tracks originate from Kyu's ablum "The Edge" (2009)
as tracks #6 . "Unititled"; #7 . "Mercury Stripes, Blue Mess"
and #10 . "The Edge".

More information on Kyu and his music can be found on:
http://www.myspace.com/kyuumusic



8: KNOWN BUGS
-------------
* The player cannot swim. Harmony is inspired on games from the 
nineties in which swimming was not common. For the same reason the 
player cannot jump nor crouch.
This means the player will have to RUN instead of jump to get across 
openings. For a list of the controls press the F1 key in the game or 
select 'customize controls' in the options menu.

* Harmony has not been fully tested for multiplayer games so it will
probably be unbalanced when playing with more than one player.



9: HARMONY AND DOOM
--------------------
Harmony started out as an add-on for Doom2, but along the way 
the project started a life of its own. All features except for 
the high resolution sprites, title, help and intermission picture are 
compatible with any Doom related source port (although some maps
might give VPO's). All the mapping effects (iris doors/ 'solid' 
floor over 'solid' floor in map 7 / exploding fire extinguisher / 
etc...) are compatible with vanilla Doom2.exe! 
In other words it should be easy to make versions of Harmony for
every Doom related source port. I chose only to make one for Zdoom 
because I already had some experience with it. People are free to 
make versions for other ports as long as they follow the rules 
discribed below in the "LEGAL PART" section below. 

Harmony is distributed with the Zdoom engine, but it can also works with 
other Doom related engines (like GZDoom). 

To play Harmony with a different engine you will need to:
1: download another source port, for example: GZDoom 
( http://grafzahl.drdteam.org/page.php?page=230 ).
2: Run the port with the Harm1.wad file.

Note that Harmony will look and feel different from how it was intended to.
Note: Harmony can also be played with the lastest/ future versions of 
zdoom, by dragging the Harmony.wad file onto zdoom.exe. 



10: THE MAKING OF HARMONY
-------------------------
Working on Harmony was creatively challenging in many ways. It involved;
designing levels/ enemies/ weapons, sculpting, drawing,  painting, 
creating digital images, sound editing and 3D-modelling. 
Furthermore, for the promotion of Harmony I learned how to make a website 
with HTML. Making Harmony was a highly challenging and learnful experience. 

If you want to learn more on how Harmony was made, please visit:
www.rabotik.nl  



11: LEGAL PART
--------------
In the very unlikely event something goes wrong with your computer I do not 
accept any form of liability. 


* Maps and Graphics:
	All resources in the harm1.wad were made by me (except for some coding
	which is free, and the "BOSSBACK" image discussed later*). 
	You may freely distribute these Harmony files but you are not
	allowed to make personal profit by selling/ renting/ leasing (one
	of) them. 
	You may use them for your own project(s) on these 3 conditions: 
	1: You are NOT allowed to make (personal) profit from them in any
	way. 
	2: You are NOT allowed to use them for racist, sexist or otherwise 
	hateful intent.
 	3: You must give me (Rabotik) proper credit.
	
	*The picture at the end of the game (named BOSSBACK) was 
	made by "Space is green". If you want to use this image you will need
 	to ask him for permission. www.spaceisgreen.nl .

* Sound effects: 
	The sound effects used in Harmony came from various sources. A list 
	with sources belonging to each sound can be found in sounds.txt in the
	"other-files" folder. 
	I did my best to check if they were all completely free, and to my
 	best knowledge they are. 

* Music:
	The music tracks were created by Kyu. All music tracks fall under a 
	creative Commons license : 
	BY - No Commercial Use - No Modification. All tracks are under 
	copyright of Kyu/KERBERENES Antoine. Further authorizations 
	and questions can be asked at kyuu_k@hotmail.fr

* harmico1.ico and txt files:
	The harmico1.ico, autoexec.cfg, Harmony.txt, licenses.txt and 
	sounds.txt file were made by me and are free.

* Other files:
	fmodex.dll, harmony.ini, zdoom.pk3 and licenses.zip are Zdoom related 
	files, which were not made by me but can be distributed freely.
 	HARMONY.exe is a modified version of Zdoom.exe (also free). 
	For more information read the text files in licenses.zip.



12: ENDING
----------
I hope you enjoy Harmony,


T.V.
aka Rabotik

e-mail: rabotik AT gmail.com

 December  2009
 www.rabotik.nl


