Runner: Zero-Master
Date: 2016-10-03
IWAD: TNT.wad
Category: NM-Speed
Map: Movie 1-30
Source Port: Competition Doom v2.0.3.2
Time: 1:23:37 (01:23:51.00)

Map	Time	
01	01:10	:))
02	02:08	:))
03	03:07	:))
04	00:32	:))
05	02:50	:))
06	03:35	:))
07	01:16	:))
08	03:33	:))
09	04:02	:))
10	04:10	:))
11	00:32	:))
12	01:21	:))
13	02:18	:))
14	04:12	:))
15	00:44	:))
31	00:59	:))
16	02:31	:))
17	01:38	:))
18	03:59	:))
19	02:41	:))
20	05:08	:))
21	05:06	:))
22	00:29	:))
23	01:17	:))
24	00:47	:))
25	05:04	:))
26	04:18	:))
27	04:21	:))
28	02:38	:))
29	04:19	:))
30	02:51	:))

Description:
I never thought I would do this, but here it is. To my surprise this was somewhat fun to do, 
I didn't like the UV run too much because of the long and easy levels. Almost all my time
on attempts have been spent on the first 9 levels, since this was my first attempt to go
past stronghold. 

This is my 50th d2all! the majority of them being 30uv\30nm.

Like plutonia I once again get very lucky, of course luck is badly needed on both map 08 and 09.
I expected maps like 14, 21 and 27 to be the major obstacles, only 21 went smoothly here. 

There are very few tricks done in this run, most notable would be on map 05 where I grab a key
through the wall. Some other tricks done here are linedef skips to avoid some monster ambushes, 
but nothing major like those done in Doom 2 or The Plutonia Experiment.

I've been playing some random WADs lately, and for the first time I've felt like nightmare 
is the normal difficulty. It feels strange to see fireballs and demons move so slowly.

Thanks to Xit-Vono and Ancalagon, especially Xit-Vono who did most of the work with the first 
completed episode 2 and 3 on nightmare and individual levels.


Map 01: Not that difficult of a map, there's lots of health and armor on it. Obviously I want 
to save the mega armor for map 02 and so on, so I grab it as late as I can. I also try to save 
as many bullets as I can. 

Map 02: One of the hardest maps, luckily it's only the second map. The start is straightforward, 
the problem starts when you enter the large room with YK\BK. Killing the hitscanners can be annoying 
sometimes since they are very far away and therefore the chaingun just can't hit them. Next there's 
all the demons\spectres which are very quick on nightmare... Then it all comes down to if you can 
reach the yellow key or not. Infinite height will often mean the end here with either the imps or 
demons getting a block in either on the way over or the way back. The rest isn't too bad if you have 
enough health or just don't take any bad hits.

Map 03: Definitely not a very difficult map, but it still has its challenges. Lots of random hits 
from hitscanners and unlucky fireballs can remove your health quickly here. If I have the health 
for it I will grab a pack of rockets near the end to make the next map easier.

Map 04: Usually I will have very low health for this map, in that case it's completely random. 
If I do have enough health than it shouldn't be difficult at all. If I have the 10 additional 
rockets I can kill everything before respawn sets in. Bad movement at the end caused me to take 
a melee hit from the hell knight.

Map 05: There is quite a bit of health on this map, so if I can avoid making any dumb mistakes 
I should be fine. Do the yellow key grab trick here. I grab the soulsphere since it's easy to 
do and will overall give me a better chance of making it further. Grab the invisibility to help 
with hitscanners. Grabbing the red key before the mega armor opens up monster closets, which is 
not a problem due to infighting and I need the bullets from the chaingunners.

Map 06: Not difficult either, so much resources on it.

Map 07: I get a mega armor at the start of this map, if possible I'd like to keep it to map 09, 
but it's really not. 162 armor before invurnability was quite good, I usually have around that 
if everything goes right. I kill the spectres in the pit to avoid them from blocking me later, 
and open the secret. Once I opened the secret I don't fire to avoid waking up the baron for a 
few seconds so I can push him in with the RL before my invurn runs out, close one this time. 
Very good health and armor, probably my best 07 ever.

Map 08: This is the second hardest map of the run, and it is almost completely luck based. Of course 
the hardest part is the very last area, which just so happens to be right before stronghold, what a mess...

The start is not too bad, a couple of hitscanners that can be dealt with slowly. I discovered it's 
possible to do a linedef skip by the switch which lowers the barricade to the red key. It's not much, 
but it prevents the 2 monster closests from opening, giving me some more time before respawn can 
occur and saving me some plasma ammo. I grab the soulsphere as usually you'll get away with more 
health, more likely than not I have to grab the green armor anyways. 

Very good health going for red key door. I wake up the first shotgunners in the last room as I think 
it helps a bit. I can't shoot in the last room since it wakes up a lot of hitscanners and it would 
waste ammo which I can't afford. After activating the last switch I wait for the arachnotrons to move 
out of the exit area. This was also the best map 08 I've ever had, very lucky here. 

Map 09: First of all I start by killing the shotgunner and then clearing the barrels. The zombiemen 
can't hit me if I stay in the middle so I use rockets to quicly kill them. After clearing out the 
next 2 rooms and hitting the switch I clear one of the barrels which will destroy a second barrel, 
then the barrel on the corner, this is so you don't get killed by them from hitscanners destroying 
them. There's a switch in the next room that does almost nothing for me, and a deaf shotgunner behind 
the lowering wall. Usually this shotgunner won't wake up, sometimes he gets hit somehow and die 
like this time, sometimes he would survive and hit me in the back even though I thought he was not 
awake, so I have to kill him. 

I delay picking up the invisibility, as it will last just to the section with all the doors. I open 
and close the door from the right to cause infighting on the top left, I then use SSG to clear anything 
infront of the door. Wait for the large door to close before grabbing the invisibility and switch to 
plasma rifle. At red key switch enemies that teleport will instantly fire so it's important to pain 
chance\kill them asap. I wasn't sure if I pressed the red key switch, so after getting the secret green 
armor I had to double check, which probably cost me some health. I clear my way through using rockets 
for the most part, I was too low on health so I grabbed the 25% medikit secret, that worked out fortunately. 
I manage to clear almost everything with rockets and so I have some health left for when I go for the 
blue key which is very dangerous. A very convenient berserk here and I get lucky with the respawns. 
I use more rockets at blue key switch, things aren't looking good with this health, but once I hit the 
last switch I get all the luck. I take almost no damage going through blue key door, I've died with 
100/33 earlier because there was just so much shit blocking it. 

The last 2 rooms are not too bad, rockets deal with a lot of it. 
Chaingun for the rest... that 1 barrel however, I have no idea.

Once I hit the exit switch I had to sit up in my chair, it's really 
late and I was not prepared to actually make it this far. 

Map 10: This can also be a difficult map, always possible to take a lot of damage if you are unlucky. 
Thankfully there are 3x25% medikits at the very start of this map, because there is absolutely no way 
that you have good enough health after stronghold. After clearing out the lower tier enemies it is 
possible to do a linedef skip on the monster closets, which helps a lot, I however somehow failed it 
and almost died! Next it is possible to grab the mega armor without activating more monsters. Not too 
much ammo left at this point, luckily I have lots of shells, so I take things slow and clear out the 
pain elementals since they don't respawn. I kill the revenants in the red key room from a place they 
have a hard time hitting me, though respawning demons can be a problem. I took a lot more damage than 
I would like at red key, luckily the rest of the map went fine. There are 2x25% medikits at the mega 
armor that I could grab.

Map 11: Hopefully have enough health to reach the megasphere on this map, which I did so no problems here. 
What I didn't like was that 1 random fireball from a manc at the very end.

Map 12: Straightforward map, take it a bit slow to not waste any health and grab some rockets.

Map 13: This map can be dangerous, but there is a mega armor and invurnability which helps a lot. 
Everything went wrong after I grabbed the red key, there was a good chance I could have died. 
After opening red key door I decided to go for 10% health at the right, nearly got hit by the revenant, 
so that wasn't a good choice.

Map 14: I made so many mistakes on this map, it's difficult, but not too bad if you know what you 
are doing. Clearly I had no idea because I even managed to forget to hit the switch for the secret 
soulsphere. The start went well, used plasma to clear out the crusher room, activated the wall for 
the switch, and then just ran straight past it. I didn't realize before I reached lost souls maze, 
"wait, did I hit that switch?... fuck!" and so I made this more difficult than it should have been. 
Then the next mistake was to grab the rad suit so early and clear out more hitscanners, this nearly 
killed me when it ran out after I had to waste more time grabbing health by the green armor. 
Fortunately I got really luck in the crusher room again, taking little damage. The last area was a 
complete mess again, I wanted to jump down to the right side, because I don't want to get blocked 
by the mastermind. Now I am stuck here between the mastermind, the hitscanner that is blocking me 
on the right and a possible chaingun respawn behind me at anytime. I am also afraid to rocket myself 
to clear the hitscanner out. Eventually something hits me in the back, and so I panic and just go 
for it. I get extremly lucky as I manage to miss the mastermind with the SSG which is supposed to 
pain state him and still reach the exit with some health.

Map 15: This is were the run gets kind of easy for the next few maps, there's a bit of health and 
the start here so it should be impossible to die on this map. I only have to reach the invurnability, 
where only a single cacodemon can hit me on the way. Once I got it I can grab the BFG and exit the 
map to the secret level.  

Map 31: Similar to map 32 of doom 2 where you get a stockpile of ammo and health without there being 
any danger at all. Spam a few BFGs to clear out any hitscanners at the start, grab all the resources 
and exit with 200\200 and full ammo.

Map 16: There is a megasphere and a mega armor on this map, and since you start with 200\200 it should 
be impossible to die here as well. 

Map 17: Should take things a bit slow on this map, quite a few hitscanners and demons, also a couple 
of revenants and an arch-vile. They can do a lot of damage in a very short amount of time, but not 
very likely if you don't rush things. I completely messed up again at the blue key, I gambled on the 
arch-vile not respawning that quickly, I wasn't sure if the revenant could hit me and push me into 
the pit which I would have no idea how to get out of.  Complete panic mode again, I know I have 25% health 
in the starting area, then I just need to reach the invurnability and grab whatever I can before I exit.

Map 18: Very large map, but few enemies. I want to have 100 health going for the blue key, so I will grab 
the red key first if I don't have that. At the blue key teleporter room I make sure to BFG the arch-vile 
and there is a chance he respawns so I need to keep the lookout for that. Grabbing yellow key is straightforward. 
In 30ev I would grab the invurnability and rocket jump over to the soulsphere, here I actually do the 
opposite. There is a soulsphere by the exit area and with the invurnability it's impossible to die to the 
cyberdemon. Also the rocket jump is probably the easiest trick I know. I told myself not to forget the yellow key, 
and I still forgot to grab it, luckily I remembered before the invurnability.

Map 19: A lot of annoying hitscan at the start, but taking things slow it shouldn't be too bad. Grab key 
and then megasphere, grab soulsphere while I wait for the demons to gather up by the blue key door. 
Use rockets to clear everything and then try to get to the exit with as much health as possible.

Map 20: The start of this map is the most dangerous, once I reach the red key door it should be impossible 
to die. I do the last area pacifist because it prevents monsters from teleporting in the central water area. 
The mastermind or arch-vile might be able to deal a lot of damage, so I can avoid that, the downside are the 
chaingunners which I cannot kill. Very lucky this time, they were busy infighting, of course getting killed 
here should be impossible, but I need that health for the next map.

Map 21: Very dangerous map, lots of enemies that can slowly pick off your health. I make sure to 
clear anything inside the room which you enter once you go through the teleporter in the centre pit. 
I've had a 30ev run die because I got hit by 2 hell knights at the same tic after teleporting. 
I have to clear this room a total of 3 times, and I also try to run around the longer side to drag 
all the monsters that respawn in the centre away from the teleporter when I can. I also need to avoid 
having them block me from jumping down.

Map 22: Easiest map in the run, nothing to say here.

Map 23: A few hitscanners are the start so no need to rush things, just pick them off with the chaingun. 
Then you get an invurnability which lasts to the exit. I messed this part up to, well, that was the most 
bullshit thing I've seen to be fair. I had no idea where to go and I was so surprised I ended up in the 
correct room, so I was confussed if I even grabbed the right key for a moment. That would eventually lead 
to me taking some bad damage at the end of the map. 

Map 24: Another invurnability which lasts to the end of the map.

Map 25: Lots of resources on this map, so it should be easy. I played badly here, the first 2 revenants 
somehow wouldn't die, then the second pair gave me trouble as well. My health dropped a lot lower than 
I would like, but the mega sphere isn't too far away. I was afraid of rocketing myself in the next room, 
I wasn't sure where the respawns could happen. The last part of the map went terrible, took so much damage, 
I think I did everything right here and just got really unlucky. I knew there was a berserk on the next map.

Map 26: Annoying map, shouldn't be too much of a problem, but with my health it is one. Dumb mistake 
trying to kill the first 2 spectres with SSG, that could have killed me if I get blocked by the imp 
from behind and don't manage to kill the spectres somehow. I need all the health I can get for the next 
map, so surviving isn't enough. Everything goes really well up until the yellow key, not much I can do 
to avoid the damage there. I know about the soulsphere, but grabbing it is just more dangerous. Slowly 
I loss most my health, but if I exit at about a 100 I'll take it. 

Map 27: Mount pain, the last barrier for 30tn really, the last section is very dangerous. The start will 
depend on how much health I have. Small mistake using chaingun to clear the chaingunners at the start, 
then I get hit by a few fireballs in the next section. When I took a fireball hit after grabbing the rad 
suit I was telling myself not to die like this, not in this god damn sewer of all places, so I started 
focusing and managed to get to the next section without taking more hits. Once I grab the green armor it's 
usually straightforward until my invurnability runs out, and then it's all about the next part, feels 
like the entire run has been leading up to here. Slowly clear out everything with chaingun, after grabbing 
the key I took so much damage which I probably could have avoided. I wasn't 100% sure the 2 BFGs would 
clear out the enemies infront of me, if I get stuck then I'm dead. The second BFG was several times fired 
to early for me too open the door in time during practice. I then made some huge mistakes by taking damage 
from the imp, and when I opened up the door to the last section I was supposed to stand in the corner, at 
this point I was sure I was going to die because the vile could even be awake if the outer area didn't 
kill me. I was so happy to make it through this map, it really is awful.

Map 28: Dying at this point is unaccaptable, should be straightforward from here. Mega armor and some health 
at the start before a mega sphere, so plenty of health right away. After grabbing the red key then go through 
the maze and grab the blue key, before grabbing the last key and another mega sphere.

Map 29: I can take the start as slow as I want, grab a soulsphere as well. The next area I make sure not to 
wake up the arch-vile and clear out the lost souls. I don't want to get blocked in the crushers as they will 
kill me no matter how much health I have. I use the SSG to kill the mastermind since I don't lose any health 
that way. Second to last room I go pacifist until going through the teleporter to the yellow key as to not 
wake up the arch-vile, the rest should be easy.

Map 30: A bit afraid of everything here, so much that could instantly kill you, but all of them unlikely. 
The first obstacle is the puzzle platforms, just do it the normal way, should be impossible to fail it. 
I make sure to kill the lost souls because I don't want them to do anything unexpected like they did on 
map 27 for 30pn which should have killed me. The next area is also dangerous, revenant rockets have the 
possibility to knock me off. I told myself to just don't fall off running back from the switch, I refuse 
to die to a mistake at this point, it's possible to take damage from the revenants and then to get killed 
by the cyberdemon. I really have no 100% method to hit the switch by the cyberdemon, but it should work 
9 out of 10 times and anything else is probably worse. Even if I should get hit I have enough health to 
survive this time. There is also another problem with this particular room, if I stand in certain areas 
and look in certain directions my game will exit\crash, and I wouldn't even have a failed demo. When I 
turned around after the switch it might have been close. Apparently it's all the pillars in the room that 
causes it in cndoom sourceport. 

I use chaingun just to avoid any dumb self rockets, make sure to clear out everything because telefrag can happen. 
I look around to see if the demon has respawned before going to the last room. I get the baron to infight the 
cacodemon, I don't want him flying around when I try to kill the IoS. My strategy worked perfect here, kind of miss 
timed my first BFG after the barons, but I got the hit on the cube spawn so it didn't matter. I knew it was over 
when I didn't see anything in front of me, I can just spam BFGs and I only need 300 damage, so about 75% chance of 
1 BFG being enough, 3 would be 100%. Barons respawning would be the worst, as I would have to kill them and probably 
wait for the next cube spawn.

There we go, Final Doom has been completed on nightmare!
