PWAD - Deus Vult (dv.wad)
FILE - DV04-UVMAX2.lmp
Type - UV Max (100/100)
Map  - Map04 (End of Days)
Port - PrBoom 2.2.4
Plr  - Converted Doomer

Kills  - 119%
Items  -  83%
Secret - 100%

Time   - 42:56

Description: End of Days was supposed to be hard-fun, but in PrBoom, this map is absolutely brutal.
             This may be one of the hardest map beatable, matching the toughest of HR maps blow for blow. 
             Only after 120 tries did I yield a single UV-Max demo. I played like a coward, stretching
             a 25-minute map into 43 minutes by cornering and resting, but I've beat it, 
             proving DV demo-recordable for all major ports. Some parts of the map are capable of killing you
             instantly at 200/200 if you're not careful. Here's some of the fights to watch out for:

1) The Opening Fight: You will have to take on a cluster of imps, revenants, mancubis, barons, and one archvile,
                      without a BFG in the open. The key here is to take out the double chaingunners with a flick 
                      of the wrist and head for the cell pack corner, with good speed you should be able to shelter
                      yourself from the archvile flame attack, and don't stay in there too long, otherwise the mancubis 
                      will pummel you with fireballs. Focus your entire efforts on killing the archvile and dodge those
                      close range attacks, this must be done quickly or you're toast. 

2) The 360 Degree Trap: Once you come near the fourth Radiation Suit and spot the giant mouth, walls will come down and
                        all hell breaks loose. You have two tactics. 

                        The first tactic is to lure the all the baddies from the caves and make them infight one 
                        another via circle-strafing, this carries a risk of getting flamed by archviles which 
                        happened to be mixed in with this unfriendly crowd. 

                        The second tactic is less risky, once you provoke all monsters from 360 degrees, enter the 
                        secret room where the Cacos and PEs spawns from--it should yield a soulsphere--and give 
                        you a chance to neutralize all the flying monsters without much opposition. The tricky part here
                        is to time your escape from the rock island. by using your elevation and the enemy's diagonal line
                        of fire, you should be able to get the Cyberdemons to kill off a large number of foes before they 
                        get swamped by barons. After hearing their death roars, leave the room and target any Archviles
                        in the crowd, the rest should be mopped up with caution. It may seem like a complicated tactic, 
                        but it'll come naturally when you know the layout of this map.

3) Blood Temple [Hallway]: When you think of this area, think of the opening fight from HR2-32, without an invuln...
                           work fast, target those viles, always be on the move, and watch out for the duo of roving
                           cyberdemons. You must clear the enemies out quickly without waiting, if they are alive and
                           and control the middle, you will be out of cells and will be dead. Work fast and accurately,
                           speed and territorial control is key here.

4) Blood Temple [The Bloody Fight]: When you think of this area, think of the blue key area in AV26, cept' blood 
                                    instead of water, and includes Archviles and cyberdemons, it's a good
                                    thing that you have an invuln to spend tho. The strategy here is to pick up the
                                    invuln at the right time: when the distinct third wave of attack starts warping in.
                                    using all your BFG-spamming knowledge, you will clear out as many viles and cybos
                                    as you can while your screen is black and white. After the invuln wears out, use 
                                    those poolside shields; they will come in handy when your screen gets flamed. 
                                    With fast circle-running and the ability to provoke infights, you should come out of
                                    this fight with an excess of blue armors, good for mistakes later on :)

5) Final Fight: By natural instinct, you will grab all the ammunitions and powerups before taking the big plunge.
                This fight isn't too hard if you know there is one rad suit in the back of the Dark Tower, make a fast 
                run for it and start the infights, won't be too hard to mop up the rest of bastards. A slight warning:
                there is only one item down there, and that is the rad suit. Won't be too hard, and as your reward for
                enduring hell, you get to poke an eye out!!!

Don't try to record a [PRBoom] demo for this map, it's just too damn hard, it's easy fun in ZDoom tho,
--Huy