Runner: Zero-Master
IWAD: Plutonia.wad
Category: NM-Speed
Map: Movie 1-30
Source Port: Competition Doom v2.0.2.1
Time: 43:57 (44:12.69)

Map	Time	
01	01:05	:))
02	01:59	:))
03	02:05	:))
04	02:09	:))
05	01:55	:))
06	02:32	:))
07	00:56	:))
08	01:11	:))
09	01:29	:))
10	01:24	:))
11	01:19	:))
12	00:33	:))
13	01:59	:))
14	01:01	:))
15	00:54	:))
16	00:47	:))
17	00:19	:))
18	00:35	:))
19	00:38	:))
20	02:19	:))
21	00:49	:))
22	02:26	:))
23	02:34	:))
24	01:49	:))
25	01:28	:))
26	01:23	:))
27	01:31	:))
28	02:08	:))
29	01:32	:))
30	01:08	:))


It's been just over a year since I picked up doom speedrunning after watching inspiring runs like 30nm2939 by Henning and
watching Dime stream his plutonia UV-Speed attempts. This will probably be the best demo I will ever make, even
though it didn't take as many attempts as Doom 2 UV-Speed in 20:32, The work that I put into finding a route that
is survivable and practice to make sure I have everything accounted for has been tremendous. This could have
happened on the first run, or the 10.000th run, it all comes down to playing well and having a lot of luck on the way,
which is exactly what I had this time. 

No previous episode\d2all runs non-TAS existed before I started. 
The induvidual level runs for plutonia on nightmare are not very useful in planning this run, since weapons from
the previous levels make a lot of difference, and time is not a factor for me. There is a TAS by Istvan Pataki which is 1:11:04 
long and done in 1999, I haven't even watched most of it. So most of the planning comes from things I learned while doing UV.
So thanks to all those who discovered the tricks for this run, without most of them this would have been impossible.

There are several glides, rocket jumps, arch vile jumps, keygrabs, and a ton of trigger skips. 
This run is 27 minutes faster than the TAS (done in 1999), and even a few minutes faster than the first UV-Speed exit by stx-vile.


Map descriptions:
Map 01: Mega armor is easily avaliable at the start which makes the start of this run a lot more comftorable.
I only grab the Rocket Launcher (RL) before going for the exit, where I clear out everything as quickly as possible
so that I can do the SR50 trick to jump to the exit without getting disturbed by respawning chaingunners.


Map 02:	RL is pretty useful here to clear out the hitscanners, I also grab some plasma cell\backpack on this map
so that I'll have an easier time on map 4. Invisible bridge can be annoying at times, need to move quick not
to get hit by revenants.


Map 03: I hit the arch-vile with 3 rockets hoping that he will survive, because I don't want him to respawn
by the time I get back, as it costs a lot of time to kill him again. Thankfully there is another mega armor
on this map which I can grab before going for the exit, as I really need it for map 4, which is also why I 
grab the soulsphere secret. I skip the red key by doing a glide to hit the switch that lowers the exit.


Map 04: One of the hardest maps in the run, for any consistency on this map you have to grab the plasma rifle.
It will allow you to rush from the blue key to the exit, as there are revenants that are able to hit you very quickly
which means you're dead if you get stuck in a cacodemon\pain elemental. I cleared out the barons earlier on which
makes them respawn in an area they can't get out of. Close call on blue key.


Map 05: I do a glide here to skip 2 barons, and just take it slow since there are so many hitscanners\demons ready to 
kill you at the start. If the mastermind doesn't infight then I am usually dead, this time I was very lucky to take hardly any damage 
from him. I kill 2 barons at the exit area so I can reach the switch, still almost died even though I didn't even get hit by arch-vile.


Map 06: So many revenants... they just keep a constant stream of missiles going, some which are homing, making it very difficult
to move forward. Lots of plasma ammo on this map, will come in use later. The last room is one of the hardest places to get past,
simply due to the amount of shit that will respawn... chaingunners hitting you from the high ground, revenants respawning to block 
the switches, and of course demons to block you in no time, or even worse, take a rocket to the face, oh and, let’s not forget the cyberdemon.


Map 07: Short but very dangerous map, just lost 2 runs on this map before this run. 


Map 08: There's a glide here to skip a large part of the map, making it a lot easier. 
Impossible to avoid taking a hit from the arch-vile, though it usually allows me to reach the exit quicker, 
which is nice when there are either barons\revenants trying to hit you. Very easy to get pushed off here, also by the arch-vile.


Map 09: If there wasn't a soulsphere on this map I wouldn't even bother with this run, the invurnability usually never lasts to the 
last room and I take tons of damage from the hitscanners. This was pretty much perfect up to the last room, 
but a major fuck up in the end cost me a lot of armor, which I need to keep all the way to the end of map 12. 
I set up for a trigger skip so I avoid activating the elevator for the mancubi, it's near impossible to hit the switch
with getting pushed off. 152% armor at the end is horrible, since it's so difficult to keep it past map 10. 


Map 10: Very dangerous map, again I need to keep my armor high, surviving this map is not enough.
The window skip doesn't work all the time, which means I'm dead if it fails. I got really really lucky on this map at times, 
going for the red key switch and back, nothing short of a miracle. 87% armor is not a complete disaster.
If I have around 50% or less I might as well just end demo and take a new episode 1 record instead :)


Map 11: I try to skip waking up the arch viles by running out on the left side of the switch as quickly as possible. 
If I don't get it correctly than this goes from being an easy map to one of the hardest maps. So, it's better to
hit the switch too early rather than too late, since it does nothing, while hitting it too late will wake them up,
which is why I failed this a few times.


Map 12: Extremely hard map, there's a really long list of shit that can go wrong here. Everything is planned very carefully.
I let the chaingunner hit the hell knight in the start so I can get around, then I get in line of sight of caco so that I can
drag him to the left and run around him without getting hit. I need to avoid firing at the start so I don't wake up the 2 cacodemons
by the exit, even though it could look like it kinda backfired this time considering how close it was in the end. I then BFG
my way through so I can kill that damn pain elemental, he will fuck things up so quickly that I just need to kill him asap. 
This route is very effective in dealing with him, I also try to avoid killing the demon and spectre up to this point, 
so that I can run back to the mancubus and kill them from there. If either of them respawns the run is over, since there is a 12
second delay before they can respawn I need to kill them as late as possible. They will just instantly block any attempt of a rocket jump.
then I kill the imps last, obviously I can't have any of them respawning, so if there were several cacodemons left alive
I would very likely have to deal with respawns of imps\demons which would not work. 

The arch-vile is a pain in the ass once you go through the teleporter, because he will force you to hug the wall, which makes it near
impossible to dodge any projectiles from cacos\imps left alive. After all of this you have the "easy" part where you just do a rocket jump.
During UV-speed attempts less than a year ago this was one of the most scary parts, same goes for map 25 RJ :)

I took almost no damage which is very very rare up to the point where I do the rocket jump, and in the end I exit with 14% after
kind of messing up, though it's hard to avoid taking damage from the cacodemons.


Map 13: The lost souls would have killed me here with 14% at least 50% of the time, I got lucky again. Last time
I reached this map I had 24% health and got killed, that was my best attempt until this one.
I take things really carefully in the start, then I skip the trigger for the mancubi elevators on the key.
I do two glides here, since this is the furthest I've ever gotten so my hands are shaking a bit at this point,
making the glides a lot more difficult than they needed to be, but I didn't fuck up by turning left\right or moving past the gap
which would cost a lot of time, and the baron can respawn and just kill me.

I clear out the hitscanners and grab the mega armor, luckily 1 of the mancubi is facing the wall and doesn't wake up.
Try to avoid waking up the revenants that are behind me when entering the last room, so that I can safely reach the megasphere.


Map 14: I kill the cacodemon since I don't want him to disturb me when I go for the key grab. Slightly difficult trick,
if I miss it then I can take a lot of damage, fortunately I got it first try. I take it really safe in the end since there
are a lot of revenants. I take a lot less damage than usual this time.


Map 15: One of the very few easy maps in this run, invurnability allows me to go through this without any problem.
Sometimes the large amount of hitscanners can push me off the platforms at times, or the archviles can throw me off.
If the invurnability runs out you take damage very quickly.


Map 16: I kill both the damn arch-viles here, makes it a lot easier. Very dangerous map, I only get 1 attempt 
on the elevators, If I fall down the respawn will kill me 100% of the time. I lost several episode 2 attempts here.
Revenants can push you off the elevator or spectre can block you going for the teleporter.


Map 17: Plenty of health and enough plasma ammo, making this a very easy map, and here I do a death exit, meaning I die, exit the map 
and start the next map with 100% health and no weapons.


Map 18: I take a step back and run forward to counter a shotgunner. Sometimes you get an imp or shotgunner teleport 
right in front of you at the start, a shotgunner is way too dangerous so the imp will throw a fireball 
that can hit him getting them to infight. Everything went perfect this time, arch-vile jump to the exit skipping the whole map.


Map 19: I grab the secret here, and BFG, so just missing plasma\RL which I pick up on next map.
I do a glide here to reach the exit. In this map there is a cyberdemon in a very small space, I don't even
want to think about the difficulty if there was no glide here.


Map 20: Quite a dangerous map, I take a lot of things slow here to make sure I get through alive. 
I killed some chaingunners by using rocket splash damage by the invisibility sphere. 
You cannot fire after you pass the arachnotrons, I make sure to pass the trigger that opens the wall there.
I need to wait for the barons to leave so I can hit the switch. Kind of close to missing the jump to the pit, which would end the run.


Map 21: Here starts episode 3, I have a lot of health\weapons\ammo at the start, and there's plenty of it, so not the most difficult map
However, I need some luck with the pain elementals, which I got, since you can't see them, they are actually busy infighting each other.
If they are able to exit and spawn lost souls then they can block me going for the glide which ends the run. 
Happened several times during episode 3 attempts.


Map 22: Impossible mission, a really hard map indeed. The start is fine, but I have spent a lot of time figuring out how to do grab 
yellow key and exit without getting killed. There is so much shit that can go wrong here, I got lucky with the yellow key by taking very little
damage, then I do the trigger skip on the teleporter which means I grab the red key without too much trouble. The baron\AV are trapped, 
but they can still hit if I get to close.

Complete panic at the end of this map, I wanted to hit the switch from the other side since it opens a secret to 2x25 health, 
but decided to just go for the health on the inside instead. There are some chaingunners nearby, I really wasn't sure
if they would kill me, and I need at least 50% health\armor to feel comfortable on the start of next map.


Map 23: Tombstone... This is by far the hardest map in this entire run, and it's only map 23 of 30!!
Incredible luck by grabbing blue key, I took no damage at all! 

I have run through this map in so many different ways, practiced it over and over and over again, yet getting through alive 
is less than a 50% chance on a good day. Almost everything went my way this time. The list of things that could go wrong here is too long,
respawn being one of the major contributors. The arch vile in the start will almost certainly respawn, and you never know where
he will show up to kill you. There are also 2 arch viles in a room leading into the red key, you pretty much just hope that the 
revenants will hit them both, which is happens about 4 out of 5 times, of course when it doesn't happen you take a lot of damage at the
wrong time. Revenants are everywhere, and luck is a major factor if you get through alive, you can get missiles going straight or homing missiles  
which are impossible to dodge in small corridors, and they can do 10% to 80% damage.

Everything went exactly as I would like it to go, which left me at a lot of health in the end which is unusual.


Map 24: Thankfully there's a megasphere at the start of this map as well, and even an invurnability! 
without either of them I wouldn't even bother with this run. I do an arch-vile jump so that I can deal damage to the cyberdemon using 
the BFG, I don't want to kill him since he can respawn. If he is alive when I go through the teleporter he will 100% of the time hit me
unless he is infighting. Even if he is infighting something it doesn't take long for him to kill his target. I exit with a lot of health.


Map 25: So many hitscanners on the start of this map, they really drain my health quickly. I do 2 tricks on this map, the first is a glide, 
and a RJ to exit. I messed up badly trying to BFG the 2 revenants , I had to rush that megasphere since it's 20% damage floor, so I took 
70% damage which is really bad, luckily the rest of the map went really good so I had plenty of health for map 26. If I miss that RJ the run 
would be over, and considering the nerves at this point there's no guarantee I will make it.


Map 26: Enough health and plasma to make this map straightforward, even then a small mistake can kill you.


Map 27: Massive fuck up on this map, complete panic in the end almost... This is what getting a NM run this far does to you, 
having the invurnability run out before you even make any progress is a complete disaster. If I would have missed that jump
to the second invurnability I would have died, the hitscanners and projectiles coming your way makes it difficult.


Map 28: I grab soulsphere at the start, rest of the map is straighforward with this kind of health and plasma ammo.
I make sure to exit at 200\200.


Map 29: Perfect start to this map, took no damage before I went to YK door. Not to well in the end, I almost fell off
by the blue key door if that missile from revenant would have hit, and mistakes like that can be hard to recover 
from since things aren't going exactly as you planned. A relief to see the revenants die and that I still have plenty of health.


Map 30: And here it is, the very last map of the run, I've died here on episode 3 attempt before. The start is not too bad,
make sure to kill the arch viles and have 600 cells with plenty of health. Then I kill the cyberdemon from a safe spot. If it wasn't
possible to kill him like this I would never even bother to look at this run, not even an episode 3 run. 

Once the cyberdemon dies I have to quickly run to the elevator, as he can respawn, even before I am able to fire both rockets!!
I do what I needed to do, both rockets hit in on first try. My fingers were shaking like crazy when I was waiting for the elevator to go up.
I need to hit fire and walk forward at the same time, at a specific time, if any of them are off then I am in a really really bad spot. 
I wasn't supposed to  drop down after firing the rockets, but I felt confident they would hit, thankfully I didn't have to worry,
since both of them went in.

