ONLY READ THIS IF YOU NEED HELP. SPOILERS AHEAD.
Written by Kyle "Skunk" Guthrie

Q: What do I do in the cave beneath the small island to the north?
A: You will need a weapon to progress.

Q: Where do I find a weapon?
A: Someone has been cutting down trees to make firewood.

Q: I still can't find an axe.
A: It's to the left of your starting position. Follow the tree stumps to find it.

Q: How do I defeat the fire dropping demon? It says I can't even scratch it!
A: You'll have to find another way. Those pillars seem weak...

Q: The roof caved in!
A: Go back the way you came when you hit the final pillar.

Q: The exit is blocked. How do I get out?
A: You'll have to find another path. Look for a new opening.

Q: I'm still stuck in here!
A: The exit is to your west, below the first pillar you hit.

Q: I've exited the cave. Now what?
A: Check the water around the now sunken island. A path may have opened up.

Q: It says I need fire to continue... but I have nothing to carry it with!
A: A special wood that always burns is behind a waterfall.

Q: I can't get behind any waterfalls!
A: Swim down into the pond to find a hole.

Q: I'm stuck in the boss area!
A: Maybe the spirit of the corpse can help you.

Q: How do I pass the pit of flames?
A: You will need the Death Artifact.

Q: I'm in Gloam but I can't seem to continue past this point.
A: You will need to enter the forest of Bosk first.

Q: How do I get out?
A: Check the clue on the locked gate.

Q: Where do I find the key?
A: Bees like honey. Smash their hives.

Q: What do I do at the big tree?
A: You'll need to find a way inside.

Q: There is no entrance!
A: The entrance is above you. Climb the rocks.

Q: I'm at the bottom. Now what?
A: You'll need to continue down into the bottom.

Q: How do I make the hole bigger?
A: You have an axe, right?

Q: What are the corpses at the ghostly demon battle for?
A: Visit each one during the course of the battle to find out.

Q: How do I open the doors to the big building in Retreat?
A: You will need to fill the three circled stone next to the waterfall.

Q: What are the three circles for?
A: You need to find three special coins. There are six in the game. Explore to find them.

Q: How do I get this coin out of the tree?
A: You will need to cause an earthquake.

Q: How do cause an earthquake?
A: Break the demons out of their holes with the axe and fight them.

Q: What do I do with the odd bug?
A: Try placing it near mushrooms.

Q: I can't find any more coins.
A: Try going to the next map, Height.

Q: How do I access the next map?
A: Search the cliffs and find a rock that can be damaged.

Q: I still can't find any more coins.
A: There is a coin below the cliffs in Height.

Q: I found a crescent shape around some eggs. What does that mean?
A: You'll have to open the eggs to progress.

Q: How do I open the eggs?
A: You'll need to place the crescent rune in it's proper monolith. It's hidden in the forest.

Q: Where is the crescent rune?
A: In a cave under the water.

Q: Where is the "secret" area?
A: It's very brightly lit. There should be some streams of light showing from behind the bushes.

Q: I still can't find the secret area.
A: Comming from the rocks south of the large tree, it'll be on your left.

Q: What do I do with the seperent horns?
A: A statue is missing horns.

Q: What did the hidden switch do?
A: It lowered the ruins near the frog pond.

Q: What do I do with the cylinder?
A: You can't do anything with just that one. There are two more.

Q: I defeated all the serprents. Now what?
A: Find the other two statues. You should be able to access them now.

Q: Where are the other cylinders?
A: One is east of the blood lake. The other is in a cave.

Q: What do I do at the tower?
A: Set the wood at the top on fire. That'll open the basement.

Q: I just got frozen.
A: Do you have a gun? You can find them hidden in Retreat and Height.

Q: I have all the cylinders. Now what?
A: Head to the northwest of Height, to the beach area, and place them in the correct order.

Q: What is the correct order?
A: R G B

Q: What do I do at the blood lake?
A: Talk to the corpse.

Q: Where is the rock?
A: In the caves. It's the one different from the rest.

Q: I placed the odd bug in the mushrooms on Beached and found a pick-ax head. Where is the handle?
A: Check the waters of Height, but not the oceans.

Q: I still can't find the pick-ax handle.
A: It's the pond west of the cylinder placements.

Q: What do I do with the pick-ax?
A: Use it on the special rock.

Q: I threw the rock into the lake. Now what?
A: Kill the demon and collect your reward.

Q: What's with the statues on the pedestals?
A: Defeat the four main bosses to find out. There is a statue for each boss.

Q: What do I do with the key the big demon dropped?
A: It opens a locked door.

Q: What locked door does the big demon's key unlock?
A: The cabin.

Q: I can't progress through the final area!
A: If you don't have the mushroom oil, you'll need to find another way through.

Q: What do I do with the valve?
A: Go to the basement and use it on the pipes to drain the watyer.

Q: I have the mushroom oil. But I'm still lost!
A: Use the oil on the lever.

Q: What did the stuck level do?
A: It allowed access to the gazebo.

Q: Where is the key to the door in Hallowed?
A: Above the gazebo, in the garden.

Q: How do I access the garden?
A: Look around the garden for a switch?

Q: Where the hell is the key in the garden?
A: It's very very tiny. Look harder.

Q: I still can't find the @$%ing key!
A: It's directly to your upper left facing the garden from the steps.

Q: I can't leave!
A: Kill the cacodemons.

Q: My guns don't affect the cacodemons!
A: You'll need to replace the missing statue.

Q: Where is the other small monster statue?
A: It's a few feet below your current point, near the beach.

Q: That ending was lame!
A: Defeat the five minibosses to access the good ending.

Q: I'm missing some journal pages.
A: Did you go into the cabin?