Runner: Zero-Master
Date: 2017-07-09
IWAD: plutonia.wad
Category: UV-Speed
Map: Movie 1-30
Source Port: Crispy Doom v4.0
Time: 19:58
	
Map	Time	      30pl2523        
01	00:15	:))	-00:08
02	00:56	:)	-00:05
03	00:59	:)	-00:10
04	00:51	:)	-00:22
05	00:31	:)	-00:12
06	01:05	:)	-00:19
07	00:26	:)	-00:01
08	00:20	:)	-00:06
09	00:50	:))	-00:18
10	00:23	:)	-00:07
11	00:58	:)	-00:08
12	00:13	:))	-00:21
13	00:35	:)))	-00:16
14	00:18	:)	-00:13
15	00:31	:(	-00:07
16	00:27	:)	 00:00
17	00:08	:)	-00:06
18	00:10	:)))	-00:07
19	00:28	:|	-00:05
20	00:50	:)	-00:09
21	00:08	:)	-00:01
22	01:00	:))	-00:19
23	01:35	:(	-00:17
24	00:44	:)	-00:32
25	00:18	:)	-00:14
26	00:48	:)	-00:03
27	00:55	:)	-00:03
28	01:34	:(	-00:02
29	01:13	:(	-00:16
30	00:29	:)	-00:18

Description:
Having worked on this for 11 months now and had some of the worst luck I have ever seen, I finally 
manage to bring plutonia under 20 minutes with a run that has some incredibly lucky moments. Not sure 
if I'm happy because I finished this, or because the bad luck streak did actually come to an end!

30pl2523 was done in 7 weeks and it was the first demo that I uploaded. It's also my favorite WAD, 
and considering I've done about 45 exits (UV and NM) for doom 2, it makes sense I would eventually 
improve this. Hell, I've even had 4 exits for TNT Evilution and only 2 for Plutonia on UV before I 
started this. 30pl2523 was a very solid run for my skill at the time, my by far 2 biggest timelosses 
on map 4 and 29 were both due to bad luck which cost me 8 and 10 seconds. After that I did 30uv2303, 
which was decent for me except for major time losses which were my own fault on map 24 and 30 with 
about 20 and 15 seconds lost. 

I think overall doom 2 has seen more time saves from tricks since then, there were several smaller 
things that could be included from the TAS in 30uv while not so much in 30pl. Not only does it seem 
more likely that a better route would benefit doom 2 more, it's also significantly easier than plutonia 
to get through, on top of that my plutonia time was then 2 minutes and 22 seconds behind doom 2 already.

So, just how low could plutonia go? Some time after the nightmare run I looked to improve 30pl, I looked 
at a lot of different improvements and I figured that with better movement I could probably go under 24 minutes. 
Instead I worked on more doom 2 runs where I got 30uv1959 a couple of months after 30pn. A few months 
later I started to look at tricks like skipping down to the teleporter on pl12, doing glides on pl13, 
and doing a RJ on pl24 to the cyberdemon. Some more refinement of the route and I thought under 23 minutes 
was looking good, perhaps if I got everything really well than maybe a 21:5X, but definitely no more than that. 
It seemed to make sense that plutonia would be around 2 minutes behind doom 2 like 30uv2303 to 30pl2523.

Then came about the 4th time that I looked at the plutonia UV route (about 11 months ago), and I figured it was time 
to complete it. Unlike doom 2 which has gone 23:25 -> 23:03 -> 21:55 -> 20:32 -> 19:59 -> 19:51 -> 19:28 I wanted 
to just do a single leap to the point where it would be very difficult to beat with a route improvement. So I spent 
an eternity trying to optimize everything, after some time the goal was to get at least under 22 minutes, and an 
incredible run would be just under 21 minutes. But then I would only need another minute to get 19:5X, so it 
became more or less an obsession to take my favorite wad under the 20 minute barrier. 

I spent a lot of time looking for other possible skips, because if nobody noticed something like pl14 before 
now there could always be something else. Nothing useful was found, only a co-op trick for Caged, JCD and Ch0wW then 
did the map in 16 seconds! Another possibility was to AVJ to either yellow key or red key on map 23, useless non-TAS, 
and very likely doesn't save any time in a TAS either. Less than a week ago I actually discovered a new trick that is 
definitely useful for TAS on map 20, but way to precise (even significantly harder than ev26 skip).. you can do a 
rocket jump from the blue key door into the teleporter and skip half the map!

While there aren't many major differences compared to 30pl2523, there are countless smaller things I do now 
to both save time and consistently get through maps, much more aggressive play and also better movement is 
the reason for this 5 minute and 25 second improvement. These (30pl2523, 30pl1958) demos is an excellent 
way to see how much I have improved over almost exactly 3 years.

While I feel I have still unfinished business with doom 2 on both UV and NM, I am confident that I will
never touch this category again. Also considering my previous time has stood for almost 3 years, I don't
expect anyone to improve this anytime soon either :)

Anyways, here's some more wall of text to describe the levels, enjoy!

Map description:
Map 01: I was planning on grabbing the rocket launcher on this map instead of map 03, as it didn't really 
cost much time as I could kill the chaingunners with it and skip it on map 03. Then I realized I don't 
actually need to use it before map 04 where I can pick it up easily without any time loss. The fastest and 
somewhat reliable way of doing this map is to just rush the 4 chaingunners and hope you can clear them before 
they kill you, saves several seconds over the old way which is to clear the first 2 chaingunners.

Good movement and activating the elevator as soon as possible will give you 14 seconds here, but 15 seconds 
is really good and so was the health, I'd reset at 18 seconds.

I did find a consistent way for doing the wallrun to the exit. It worked 5 times in a row, didn't bother to 
check it any further (might still fail at times). Unfortunately, the setup takes too much time: go in the 
corner and face the corner (closest to a 45 degree angle), do a SL2 input (smallest possible amount with mouse sideways), 
TL10 followed by a SR2 input, TR10 and then finally SR50 backwards. This skip is just impossible to do in a d2all, 
4 chaingunners and 3 mancs mean you have to do it immediately, and that's not going to work.


Map 02: Not much different on this map, I avoid firing at certain points to allow me to get through smoothly. 
I got a bit unlucky here having the hallway completely blocked like that... I think this is the only attempt 
where I actually went down to the teleporter, usually I get 55 seconds here, so overall it was acceptable.


Map 03: I can ignore the RL and mega armor, also I don't want to kill the arch-vile and instead hope to run 
around him on the way back. I couldn't see anything and I am surprised I made it across considering his 
position this time. The mancubus trap elevator(s) are a bit annoying, there's no easy and fast way to 
skip them quickly, so I activate them and do a quick setup as it is saves time on average. Unfortunately you 
also bounce around a lot in those hallways which means you might miss the jump, here I just screwed up the angle 
or something. The glide at the end is also a bit annoying, it's not difficult, but there's no reliable way to 
do it quickly because you can bounce off the wall sometimes because the wall is at an angle.


Map 04: I just rush through until I get the rocket launcher, I'll use it to clear cacodemons in the hallway if 
they are not by the fence (as I can't run past in that case). I'll also use it to clear the chaingunners by the 
exit most of the time, since there is a very good chance they deal a lot of damage or block me. I used to only 
kill 1 of the mancubus by the blue key, as I hoped going faster would give me a better chance at avoiding the 
barons blocking the way to the blue key door. However the barons are either blocking the way or not even close by, 
and the mancubus would end too many of my attempts so I kill all 3 of them. One of the hardest maps to get a good 
time on, and if I don't get past the map after a while it might reduce my motivation to keep trying.


Map 05: Grabbing the megasphere first at the start is probably best since it will guarantee to survive the mastermind, 
and it's not too important for map 06. I also rush the arch-vile now with the SSG which can be dangerous sometimes if 
he doesn't let you hit the switch, as the barons will block your escape eventually. One of the more bizarre ways to 
lose a run is to actually go past him (since it's south-west and you get damage boosted from the barons), this happened twice.


Map 06: Not too big of a difference, just some small improvements all over the place. Used to kill everything except 
the cyber in the last room before, now I leave some of the revenants alive. The spectres still have to die though, 
according to my attempts there's a 100% chance a single surviving spectre will screw me over and block me.


Map 07: Nothing different here, the fence clip is too difficult to be done in a d2all and doesn't save much time anyways. 
I played horrible here and got away with it because of lucky damage rolls, I really should not have survived.


Map 08: Nothing different, except using the SSG to hit the vile to push him back and hopefully block revenants from 
teleporting in and blocking the path. Some bad luck with the barons not moving out of the way, but then I got lucky 
getting through on the left side in time.


Map 09: A difficult glide which makes it hard to get a good time, quite a few small changes to the route. I fire 3 rockets 
at the start while I run forward, since the cacodemon is lined up with me he will not move left or right, so as long as 
I keep going towards him he will get hit by all 3 rockets. I ignore the spectres since it's hard to kill any of them 
without losing time. There is an invulnerability that only takes a second or so to grab, I didn't grab it before, but 
I use it for clearing out the spectres now because I can just run up to them and use rockets, and they aren't hard to see. 
I have no idea why, but the glide is slightly different from other south directed guideless glides (lv19, pl13). The glide 
on map 13 for example is much easier as I never go past it when I apply vertical mouse movement, why there is a difference 
makes no sense to me. 


Map 10: I discovered you can easily skip the linedef to the revenant closet here with a quick setup on the wall. It requires 
some luck, if you get hit in the back for the 1 or so second you move towards the linedef then you'll probably fail it. With 
the revenants gone there's very little chance of actually dying (failing the yellow door skip can end the run as the revenants 
can block you). Also greatly increases your chances of getting through the door before it closes, so while the setup costs about 
a second, it should on average save more. 


6:36 is a really good episode 1 time. The next 7-8 maps can easily end the run.


Map 11: The safest way of doing this map is to do a setup so that you manage to run out of the room on the left side of 
the switch as quickly as possible, and then taking the longer way around to avoid waking up additional arch-viles. There's 
no linedef skip or anything and monsters wake up based on the RNG index or current tic (I don't know how it actually works), 
either way, how many viles wake up is luck based. It was very difficult to decide how to do this map, do 1 or 2 of the 
safer ways (1.5 + 3-4 seconds wasted) for a better chance of having less viles, or use neither and hope you don't get blocked 
badly by the viles. A few attempts before this I died on this map, I could not believe how unlucky I got.. I got blocked by 
an arch-vile by 0.006 units, or close to 1/200th of a unit, then again nothing really surprises me anymore as I've seen too 
much shit during these attempts. So combined with an amazing ep1 time I decided to take the long way around. 58 seconds is 
quite ok for the slower route.

After map 11 I should be at 600 cells, they are to be used on map 12-15.

Map 12: A very difficult map now, I spend a lot less cells here. Jumping straight down into the teleporter saves a good deal of 
time (5 seconds), but the demon and spectre can block you going to the imp cage or the RJ this way. If I should miss the teleporter 
I go the normal way, but I don't BFG everything like I used to. This map has given me nothing besides pain, I could write a wall of 
text of the things that can go wrong, but I better not.

Everything went perfect this time, best time I can get here is 12 seconds.


Map 13: I need to save time and cells, and the best way to do so would be to skip blue key, unfortunately that means doing a 
north directed guideless glide. This is a very easy way to piss away a good run because you can easily waste lots of time trying 
to get through. It requires very careful movement and a really steady hand, but if I can do it during nightmare I should be able 
to do it during UV :) Unfortunately I have wasted several attempts here. This time I got an amazing time, really lucky 
glide in the south direction, I actually think that was the only time I got it without vertical mouse movement. 


Map 14: The route for this map is completely different, a new trick was discovered by fredrik on doomworld forums who suggested 
jumping from the secret area to the exit was possible. This new trick could save several seconds over the old route which was to 
do a keybump on the yellow key and then go through a secret area and grab additional cells. Unfortunately, this trick is very 
precise, in fact after trying many different angles and positions I could never find anything that would allow me to fire the 
rocket on more than 1 specific tic. There might still be some angle\position where you have 2 tics to fire the rocket, but I 
assume the position would be too precise to find quickly. So for a d2all attempt it would be too much to take such a major risk 
as I would die very frequently on this map. But this was not a trick I could ignore if I wanted to go under 20 minutes and so 
I eventually discovered that this trick can be done without a rocket jump, but instead by doing it like lv14! Unfortunately again, 
this was even more difficult, however, if I combine these 2 methods then the trick is much easier to do!

Figuring out how to do the trick was only half the problem for this map, getting past the monsters and not getting interrupted 
for the RJ while still getting a decent time took a lot of time since there where so many options that always seemed to have 
some big flaw. I've spent many hours here trying to find a quick and safe method, I feel like I've tried everything and so 
I eventually just went with the fastest method. This was after I've wasted several attempts on trying to do it a safer way 
(using rockets to clear the revenants) and having it fail anyways. So here I use a BFG to clear the 2 chaingunners to the 
left of the starting area, and then a BFG to get past the revenants. There is a decent chance I either get blocked by the 
revenants from making that short jump, or getting hit by high damage projectiles which forces me to go back for health 
(I can never afford that time loss). Here I took 2 projectiles and got lucky damage rolls for once! 


Map 15: On this map I used to grab an invulnerability and so it would be quite easy, unfortunately I don't have time for 
that. Hellknights, revenants, viles and cacodemons fill up the hallways and so there is potential to take a lot of damage. 
I just try to BFG my way through and grab the health until the yellow key, then I drop down and take the teleporter and 
avoid shooting in hopes of the vile infighting something else. Should I get blocked I have the BFG ready, but sometimes 
it might be too late. 

Got blocked going for the yellow key, unfortunate, and I was quite certain I was going to die on an otherwise really 
good attempt. I got lucky and survived, and overall the attempt at sub 20 is very much alive too.


Map 16: Nothing new, the elevator at the start of the map can cost you 3 seconds, which it did this time, if you are 
at the wrong RNG index or tic since it starts going up (again I don't know how it works, but it's luck based). The arch-vile 
is as unpredictable as always, I just hope he doesn't get attacked by anything. It's possible to get blocked when 
going for the arch-vile jump, as I use plasma to clear the way instead of BFG. A BFG would usually guarantee you don't 
get blocked, but it's difficult to time it and run in the correct direction.


Map 17: A lot faster than before because I just run past everything without trying to clear the way first.


Map 18: Nothing new, slightly different position for the AVJ to the exit. Perfect time really, though having that 
chaingunner alive by the exit could have been a disaster.


Map 19: First of 3 easy maps, I shoot the imp at the start because he will sometimes block me. Firing here will cause 
monsters to teleport into the next room once I hit the switch, not really a big deal. I ignore the RL and grab it on the next map instead.


Map 20: Nothing new, I couldn't figure out a way to hit the last switch by the barons any quicker without taking major risks, 
but I need to grab the RL there now anyways.


Map 21: I shoot at the start of the map to wake up a spectre to remove any chance of getting blocked, I also try not to miss 
the plasma rifle this time as I need the cells for map 23. Slow glide cost me a second.


After a break of easier maps we then have 4 really hard maps.

Map 22: Back when I did 30pl2523 this was the only map where I had a lot of trouble trying to match Dime's time (1:18), 
my best time is now 0:58. A few changes, I ignore everything by the teleporter to red key and instead BFG the chaingunners 
in the yellow key area. Everything else is almost the same. I've lost way too many attempts here, stupid shit like 
linedef skip on the elevator to yellow key area threw me off once, really unlucky monster positions\movement (things I 
never saw when I practiced) also messed me up several times. As an example, the revenants by the switch in the last area, 
I could run past them 10 of 10 times in practice, and then on one attempt one of them managed to get by the wall and the 
other by my side, blocking me in and then just beating me up with high damage melee rolls. 


Map 23: A small change to the route, I go through the yellow key door after grabbing YK instead of going to blue key switch 
and getting the mega armor. I've also included the guided glide so I can skip the arch-viles. Neither make a huge difference 
in time saved, but better movement and use of plasma helps a lot. This map was actually the biggest time loss, the switch 
in YK area really screwed me over, so many monsters in that room compared to practice\other attempts.


Map 24: Another big change, I discovered you can jump down to the cyberdemon without having to use a rocket. This also removes 
the completely random part where you can get hit by a rocket when going through the teleporter. Using the vile to skip to 
the exit is the biggest timesave possible in this run, but it is extremely difficult and too late to ever be worth it. This 
map has been an absolute nightmare, when I did 30pl2523 the backup was to just wait for the bridge to raise should I fail 
the AVJ. Fail the AVJ here and the run is over, and it turns out there are a lot of things that can hit the vile when he is 
targeting you. At first I looked at doing this map as aggressively as possible, but because I failed so often I had to keep 
clearing more and more monsters. At some point I was back to clearing everything except the initial revenant and the AV in 
the right cage. It looked stupid, it was slow, and I just simply could not have that in this run, so if I have to die on this 
map a lot then so be it. Luckily I did find a really good strategy in the end, which is to wait for about 2 seconds to get 
all the cacodemons and pain elementals to hopefully move out of the way. 

I also clear out the chaingunners by the elevator in the last room, this is because the cacodemon will infight and have a 
high chance of blocking you. Took a really bad melee hit from the baron, if I have enough health I could get 2 chances at 
the RJ on the next map, but this gives me just 1.

And how god damn lucky was I to avoid that rocket by the cyber? him targeting the mancubus could have easily hit me instead.


Map 25: Even more luck here, turns out I really needed that minimum damage roll from the hell knight. No need to kill the 
baron after the teleporter, just do the glide immediately. Also a quicker rocket jump, though there's a risk of getting 
shot which might push you to fail the RJ. 


Map 26: Nothing new here, just really nervous and should have died, "haha".. If I died after red key it would have been my 
fault, as I could have done something to prevent taking damage there, but I couldn't afford to grab the 2x25% medikits behind 
the chaingunners.


Map 27: It's possible to skip the yellow key here, but it's too difficult without a setup. With a setup you save no time, 
no need to take such risks this late. Kinda screwed up by the revenant, but it's possible to do a linedef skip here so I 
don't want to rush it. Fall down anywhere and it's over.


Map 28: I found a setup for the linedef skip on the elevator at the blue key. Previously I would activate the elevator and 
go behind it to activate it again instead of doing it the normal way. Turns out those are almost equally slow and the best 
option would be to go for the linedef skip no matter what. I think there's about a 25% chance you get the skip without a 
setup with enough speed, and I was relying on that because I completely forgot to get the right position here and screwed up. 
This small mistake caused this map to have the 3rd biggest timeloss with 4 seconds.


Map 29: Luuuuuuuuuucky, I can't believe this, when I did 30pl2523 I got screwed over by having something block me even with 
an 8 unit wide edge, this time I somehow made a jump I shouldn't have as I run straight into a chaingunner standing very close 
to the edge. Nothing new for the route, spent a few hours looking for the possibility of grabbing the blue key without the 
other keys. You can easily get out of the blue key room, but that's in the south-west direction, so obviously you need to go 
either north-east or south-east to get in which is probably impossible. Also terrible time, throwing away several seconds on 
these last 2-3 maps, but I knew my time was on pace for under 20 minutes.


Map 30: In 30pl2535 I had a time of 47 seconds, I managed to bring it down quite a bit. I try to activate the wall as quickly 
as possible, then kill the viles. Need to make sure I have the cells to kill the cyberdemon, depending on the time of the run 
I can take a massive risk and gain 3-4 seconds here by rushing the cyber. Usually I'll get 28 seconds here, but because 
I actually lost a run due to the cyberdemon surviving 8 BFG's I was a bit cautious. This time he actually died in 6 BFG's
from the 6th. At the bottom of the elevator you can actually see my hands shaking as I am moving around slightly by moving the 
mouse when I'm not supposed to. My best time here is 24 seconds with just rushing the cyberdemon, but with a high chance of death.


