PWAD - Deus Vult (DV.WAD)
FILE - DV02-UVMAX2.lmp
Map  - Map02 (Torture Chamber)
Type - UV MAXDEMO (100/100)
Port - Prboom 2.2.4
Plr  - Converted Doomer

Kills   -  120%
Items   -   96%
Secrets -  100%

Time    - 1:04:56

Description :

A dangerous map full of traps, it's the real Hell. I wasn't really focused on the speed 
of the demo as I was surviving for a clean getaway with UV-MAX...
in case ZDoom63's demos becomes obsolete, we got these PrBoom demos to boot :)
Clearly I wasn't used to recording on PrBoom after being spoiled by ZDoom's silky smooth 
framerates, and it showed like a throbbing thumb in the demo :(
Torture Chamber doesn't deal you fight-to-end all fights
situations, but pumps out a steady stream of vicious traps that ensures a nice train of
backstabbers. There are however, three general spots that you really need to prepare for:

1) The cliffside Caverns: After fighting for the six primary weapons and going to Hell,
                          you really have no choice but to head into the caverns, which
                          will yield a BFG at the very end... easier said than done! that's
                          for sure! Always, and I mean ALWAYS watch your back in this area,
                          not only do you have to fight the enemies in an awkward position,
                          you have to fend off backstabbers that teleports in occasionally.
                          The main strategy here is to hear that teleport cue and WATCH your
                          back, blast rockets carefully, and get the revenant fireball evasion
                          maneuver down cold, the last one's crucial.

2) Underground Plains: With the Invulnerability + BFG, you should be able to wipe out 
                       60% of the monsters infesting the plains, now the other 40% are lurking, 
                       and watching your back as always, lure them in a secure spot and kill them.
                       The high platforms housing the crowds of revenants has a matching viewpoint
                       in the Cliffside Caverns for you to launch rockets from, use it. With the best
                       of luck and lightning quick reflexes, you should be able to clean house
                       with health to spare. Altho it might not seem like it, there are excess health 
                       and ammo, exploration is key to this map :)

3) Battle for the Warp Gate: Not too hard of a battle if you stock up before fighting, just be
                             sure to wipe out the six sniping mancubis before they generate
                             any serious threat. Don't let the viles live too long; slam them with
                             your cell reserve everytime they warp in. Above all, use the warp gate
                             as your circle-strafing shield and you should come out with few hurts.

Enjoy,
--Huy
