PWAD - Deus Vult (dv.wad)
FILE - DV03-UVMAX2.lmp
Type - UV Max (100/100)
Map  - Map03 (Cathedral)
Port - PrBoom 2.2.4
Plr  - Drew DeVore "stx-Vile"

Kills  - 116%
Items  -   ??
Secret - 100%

Time   - 17:21

Description: I'm not sure if this is a good time for a run here, since this is my
	     first exit, but there was no serious loss of time.  The sheer scope
	     of the architecture left me dumbfounded on first sight.  Congratulations
	     to Huy on finishing Deus Vult, a massive+beautiful first level (which became
	     levels :).  Thanks also to Rich for his demo over this one, it helped put
	     things in perspective in regards to possible strategies here.  As he says
	     in his text file, there are three... primary concerns to tackle when attempting
	     this one.

1) The Cathedral Fight: The strategy for the level's huge opening number is simple enough,
			use the 4 invulnerabilities to take out the hordes as quickly as
			possible with the BFG.  Two cyberdemons teleport onto the lookout
			towers near the BFG switch, mancubi teleport outside, at the start,
			and the main bulk of the beasts teleport onto four different points
			inside the cathedral.  In any event, the strategy for this kind of
			situation remains the same... go after those Archviles!  Four will
			show up outside with the mancubi and 10 or more will appear in the
			main hall.  It's best to head for the next invulnerability tower
			before the current invuln starts to wear off, otherwise you can get
			caught by the viles or accidently run into a group of barons/revs.
			It's a dark hallway, so the latter isn't difficult to do. :)

2) The Revenant Curve:	As Rich says, AV29 should be what you think of when you encounter
			this bend right after the cathedral fight.  There's more revenants
			and less cover here, so consider AV29 merely the warmup version.
			It's best to sweep back and forth from one side to the other with
			the BFG, getting rid of any homing fireballs in the alcoves if you
			need to.  Be sure to save some cells once the group gets shortened
			to about 20-30 remaining skeletons, so you can prepare for the
			archviles in the center area.

3) The Cyberdemon Guards: Well, this can be a pain right after doing the secret branch of
			  the level in the library, but I made it easier by saving that
			  invulnerability until I was ready to leave (and most certainly
			  NOT pick up that invisibility, it's only a curse when tackling
			  the cyberdemons).  If you're quick, you can kill one cyberdemon
			  in the large room with the paintings and cause another one to
			  teleport onto that spot, which will keep it from teleporting onto
			  the balcony where it can wander around.  This is just trouble with
			  the other two sniping from across the cathedral.