PWAD - Deus Vult (dv.wad)
FILE - DV04-UVMAX3.lmp
Type - UV Max (100/100)
Map  - Map04 (End of Days)
Port - PrBoom 2.2.4
Plr  - Drew DeVore "stx-Vile"

Kills  - 112%
Items  -   ??
Secret - 100%

Time   - 13:11

Description: This map is a tough one to approach and come up with a decent
	     strategy... the one I eventually used here is rather experimental
	     but the time turned out surprisingly low.  It's a high-risk kinda
	     deal, so it should be more interesting to watch. :)

	     Some comments on the bitchy points:


1) The Opening Fight: There's more sensible ways of handling the start, but I
		      wanted that BFG right off the bat.  It does a good job of
		      cleaning things up right away, but you gotta run+pray a few
		      times before surviving with it and giving the cleanup a try.
		      Thankfully there's just enough cells to get the job done.

2) The Bloody Temple: Well, my approach to this area was the defining moment for
		      my little experiment... I let out all the enemies in the 360
		      degree curve, started some monster fighting, then ran for the
		      entrance to move on to the next area.  The temple itself is
		      highly cramped, so it's a good idea to bring some cells along
		      so you won't have to run into the middle for the bulk cells.
		      I mostly stay along the outsides, crossing over if I need an
		      armor or soulsphere (the armor is especially important for
		      surviving the fight).  As for the monstrous blood pool battle,
		      it's apparently inspired by AV26's blue key room (the room
		      made entirely of water) only now more difficult with the added
		      threat of Cyberdemons and archviles.

		      There's a few things to note: some time after the mancubi and
		      knights arrive, two ledges along the outside of the arena will
		      receive an Archvile and some revenants.  Take these out first,
		      don't even bother with the middle hoards yet.  Some time after,
		      the archviles and cyberdemons will arrive in the middle.
		      Continue to circle as long as you can, but be ready to run for
		      the invincibility at any time... with it, go for those archies. :)

3) Returning Outside: Pretty much another hopeful scenario... pray that a lot of
		      monsters died in the infighting.  Otherwise, go out and have
		      fun with the BFG, staying away from the dark archvile towers
		      until everything else is dead.

4) The Final Battle:  As Huy advises, once you drop in, whatever ammo you brought
		      with you is all you're gonna be able to use, so let the monsters
		      do the dirty work first.  In the demo, the spider and cyber
		      got dropped in a big hurry, so they weren't much help, but 600
		      cells were. :)

		      As for the Eye, well, sorry.. I had to poke it out.