Runner: Zero-Master
IWAD: Doom.wad
Category: UV-Pacifist
Map: E4M6 (Against Thee Wickedly)
Source Port: Crispy Doom v4.3

Kills    :   50%
Items    :    0%
Secrets  :    0%
Time     : 62:49

Description:
"One step closer to real pacifist entry. Who takes the next step?" - Looper

Well, it took 6 years, but better late than never! Thanks to Looper for 
showing that the cyberdemon can get stuck here.

This completes the pacifist table for Ultimate Doom.

A very frustrating demo to make for several reasons.
The starting area has a lot of tight spaces with walls that
are at an angle, several annoyingly placed monsters and even
some damn decorations in the way. Never have I seen so many 
elastic collisions, it's like you're a bouncing ball half the time.
I needed to be careful before dropping down to the lava as to not 
wake up the imp/shotgunner by the blue key since it makes things 
a lot easier if I avoid them.

Then after that bullshit you have the part where you open and close
a door/wall for about 4 minutes almost every time. This is to clear the 
shotgunners and as many spectres as possible. Hopefully the shotgunner
takes down 1 of the spectres in the middle, because this lets the 
cacodemon by the blue key out. It went really quick this time.

Now there's probably a shotgunner alive by the red key area, hopefully
he doesn't blast you with 40 damage going in and 40 damage going out.
I run over there to wake up the cacodemons and the monsters in the 
room next to it, which will also cause a lot of infighting.

The next part is to just lure the cacodemons down to the yellow key area.
Then you can go for the blue key, there's 2x25% health here which is really
nice. You can also just run between the imp and the shotgunner when they 
aren't awake. Frequently the cacodemons would catch up and block the
way out though. 

That's the easy part, then comes the hardest part, which is to clear the
cacodemons by infighting with the barons. Unbelieveable luck this time,
I had lots of health and I hadn't even grabbed the medikits by the 
yellow key. Also I got lucky with all 6 cacodemons being gone.
1 of the cacodemons always get stuck by the ledge to the cyberdemon room,
so there's 1 unintentional telefrag. I also need to be careful not to
wake up the 3 cacodemons that are behind the yellow key, I've screwed
that up every single time except this one. My other attempt that reached
red key ended because I got surprised by 2 of them out of nowhere.

When you grab the red key you always wake up 1 caco and sometimes 2.
Then there's another 2 cacodemons by the cyberdemon, now the barons can
sometimes actually lose the fight so you want the remaining cacos to get 
killed by the cyberdemon (both barons were at around 150 health while inital 
health of a baron is 800). This shouldn't be too difficult, but it depends 
on what survived in the room next to red key. I lost all momentum colliding
with the baron at one point and then I got an elastic collision before 
taking a melee hit, that could have killed me :)

My plan at the end was obviously to have the baron the furthest away
to kill the cyberdemon, but it turned out that he was missing a lot
more than what I expected. My estimate went from ~2 hours to ~5 hours
and it was already late, so I thought screw it and decided to go with
the other baron.

Now I'd say there's about an 40% chance I get screwed over there.
If I don't get the cyberdemon stuck and the baron hits the cyberdemon
then I am pretty much dead unless I get the cyber stuck immidiately.
Then of course it's a bit difficult to see where the edge of the hitbox
is so you might get hit by the baron. The easier part is to pay attention 
to when the cyberdemon dies so you don't get hit by a follow up projectile.

