Runner: Zero-Master
IWAD: Doom2.wad
Category: UV-Pacifist
Map: 02 (Underhalls)
Source Port: Crispy Doom v3.2

Kills    :   40%
Items    :   30%
Secrets  :    0%
Time     : 20:57

Description:
I was practicing for 30av when I ran past a baron and he didn't wake up... in a 160 unit 
wide corridor, which was ridiculous to me. So I looked up some discussion on how many tics 
there were for monsters to wake up and to fire in a thread about pa02. I had been looking 
at this map earlier, and I had the idea of doing the glide and dropping down on the right side 
could a potential strategy. So I decided to yet again take a look at this map, and I made several
major breakthroughs when I discovered how you could clear these 2 rooms out with some reliability.

Still requires absurds amount of luck, but it was very much doable in the end. Not everything went
perfect here, the barrels on the top part going down was unexpected, as that usually never happened,
and I also didn't remember hearing it so I was never sure if they were still up. Besides that the
start was perfect, though more health would have been nice. 

I can stand in a corner by the place I drop down and be perfectly safe, and let all but 1 hitscanner
remain alive this way. This is why I stand here for quite some time, to make sure it's just 1 alive.

I then had perfect luck when opening up the door to blue key, infighting could not have been better.
The imp gets dragged into the other room while I was going to wait for the shotgunner above to 
destroy the barrel, but it was already down so I was essentially wasting time. At least I was able
to calm my nerves at this point :)

The 4 remaining monsters aren't too hard to deal with, but you can easily get unlucky. The surviving 
shotgunner above was the major concern, and after the shotgunner+pinky below died I made a major mistake
in going down towards blue key, as I would easily get trapped by the 2 imps if the barrels don't get destroyed.
I got extremely lucky with the imp taking down a barrel and dying while the other one decided to infight the
shotgunner and win the fight. This was perfect, and I only had 3 imps to deal with, which is still quite difficult
as a fireball has about 50% chance of killing me. 

Once I managed to drag all imps into the blue key room the rest is straightforward. I wake up the hitscanners
1 by 1 and let them kill eachother, while I can safely get in and out of the safe spot.
