ASHES 2063 - Episode One - Final version (1.15)

This is an updated version of the previous release. I probably won't be doing much else with this one, since any improvements will be
going towards the next episode's release. Please let me know if you encounter anything seriously game breaking, however.

Note: Most characters in towns, except guards and thugs loitering around, cannot be killed. This is because I haven't given them any
animations apart from basics. Try not to start a fight, but I would like to add this option later. Let me know what you think.

Many thanks to the playtesters! I've added some new sprites and sounds (thanks, cap!) and some new areas to explore.

Important:
         Remember, run this with the DOOM 2 IWAD. And don't run the 2063maps file with other mods. It's broken. 
         I'm making a standalone maps pack. Use that one instead.
         Also, it is recommended that you run Ashes maps and mod together as a Gzdoom shortcut. Create a new short cut, and add the
         files after the shortcut address. For example, mine would look like this:

         "C:\Program Files(x86)\Gzdoom\gzdoom.exe" -file Ashes2063maps115.wad -File ashes2063mod115.pk3

         If running with Nashgore or Ketchup mods, load them BEFORE the mod file:

          "C:\Program Files(x86)\Gzdoom\gzdoom.exe" -file Ashes2063maps115.wad -File Nashgore.wad -File ashes2063mod115.pk3

         If running the Jetfire or Cj'wasted SFX mods, which can be downloaded from their respective authors on the main page, load
         these AFTER everything else:

         "C:\Program Files (x86)\Gzdoom\gzdoom.exe" -file Ashes2063maps115.wad -file ashes2063mod115.pk3 -file ashesjetfire.pk3


Changes in V1.15:
Added the grenade launcher back in as a bonus weapon. Okay, it's unbalanced. Okay, It's not finished. Okay, you never get this in Episode One. But it's there anyway. Replaces BFG9000.
All weapons bar junker musket get a reload cancel. The boot knife has been made a little faster in order to fill this role.
Small changes to revolver and 9mm autoloader, to make them a bit more viable/different.
Some minor changes to the maps. Mostly bug fixes and stuff. Mostly.
Pit fiends have been nerfed a little in regards to health and hitbox, to represent their general viciousness.
Fixed the shotgun's "freakout" during reload on empty. Use your knife if you need to finish quicker.
...That's it. Stay tuned for further releases in the future.


Changes in V1.10:
Tutorial Messages stay up longer, look better, and are added to the console log so can be viewed again if you missed them.
Tutorial guy now drops his key if he has an... "accident".
Fixed a bug where you sneak out the crushed window in the police station and enter somewhere you really shouldn't be.
Fixed some texture issues in map05.
Fixed a secret in map05 that turned it's hatch into a guillotine if you tried to find it after doing everything else. Nasty.
Junkpiles no longer trap "trash-hags" in their falling state.
Fixed a secret not triggering if entered at an angle in map07.
Added an extra, climbable level of waterfall to map07's river, so falling in is no longer a one-way trip to gibs-ville.
Moved some pipebombs in map09 that were stuck in a location the player could not reach.
Motorcycle turning is not quick as sharp/jerky, and glancing hits no longer spell instant death/maiming. Well, unless you're going 200mph or something.

Weapons are holstered quicker when selecting weapons. This should make the bootknife quicker to draw as well.
Lantern no "dies" when the battery is drained, and no longer stays on when the battery is empty.
Pitfiends have a slightly higher hit-box and slightly less health, to balance the fact that they are still pretty nasty.
Revolver has been made slightly more powerful. Not by much, but a enough that it should be noticeable.
Glock given slightly higher ROF and slightly less accuracy.
Musket reloads slightly quicker.
Master-Blaster direct hits are more damaging to enemies. Master's Masterblaster masterblast is unchanged. Yech.
Masters are slightly more aggressive, but easier to kill. Let me know if this was too easy.
Pipebombs changed back to detonate on contact for enemies and yourself, and don't bounce off. Changing this was a bad idea, and made them
useless on bosses.

Gave the scavenger a pep talk so he wouldn't feel as bad about his glowing eyes.

Changes in V1.05: A lot of minor cleaning up and spell checking. There may be a couple of errors, but picked up most of what was discussed.          If I forgot anything, please let me know.
         The 'Vines exit' of map05 is no longer reliant on finding the power first. Also, the process to first get on the route to
         Michonne has been made a lot clearer. 
         Gemini should be a little less enthusiastic with pipebombs.
         Bike should be somewhat less lethal to minor scrapes and bangs. I'm redoing this for next episode though, so don't pay
         too much attention to it, please :)
         Pipebombs are no longer on-contact weapons! Or at least, they shouldn't be. This makes using them a little less hazardous,
         and fights with a Gemini should be less one-hit-kill-tastic.
         Sawed-off shotgun, should you have one, correctly ejects the right amount of shells depending on how many are loaded.
         Added a bit more health and ammo to the first map, since the first few minutes were unnecessarily punishing.


Credits:

Xenoxols for help with DECORATE, TEXTURES, and really just being one of the first guys to get involved!
JDredalert for helping with the old flares system, and general advice.
Chronoteef for spriting help and extra vocal work. I GET HIS LIVER!
Captain J for spriting work and some in-depth playtesting, as well as the excellent SFX pack.
BigC. Lead playtester for the Alpha version.
Ozymandias81 for dropping me some cool resources.
Primeval/John S. Weekley for the absolutely incredible soundtrack. Check him out on Facebook/Bandcamp if you haven't already!
OSJclatchford for some tips on lighting and inventory.
Snarboo for the framework of the vehicle code.
Ezepov for the awesome new logo and title.
Gentek for some random conversations, and some advice.
RamonDexter for the offer of help, and of course some tips on ZDOOM dialog.
Of course WildWeasel for his GunLabs tutorials, since we wouldn't be here otherwise.
The entire Zdoom Forums for the wiki, the support and the Youtube playthroughs! Marvellous.
TorridGristle for his (now edited) Glock Pistol!
Probe Entertainment for their (crazy edited) Shotgun!
Ritual Entertainment for some voices from Sin. 
ZZrion the insect for a few duke texture edits.
Sgt MkIv for the idea behind the motorcycle.
GAA1992 for his dinocrisis item rips
Strelok on GameBanana for original grenade launcher sounds.
Vader for the original Roach sprites. Not, not those roaches. The bigger ones.
TheRailgunner for the awesome JETFIRE speed mod.
I suppose this is no secret at this stage, but the mod does include an edit of "The Gonk" by Herbert Chappell.

///Following credits courtesy of Captain J ////
Sounds taken from;

DSDORCRK - short creaks creek creaky door open close.wav by HowardV at Freesound.org
DSREGSTR - Cash Register by kiddpark at Freesound.org
DSHAMMUP - Chainsaw Start Attempts.wav by lonemonk at Freesound.org
DSHAMATK - jackhammer.aif by ignotus at Freesound.org
DS556OUT and DS556LOD - Assault Rifle Manipulation 02.wav by GreenFireSound at Freesound.org // Note: M16 is no longer useable.
DSZIPPO1 - zippo_open_light_close.wav by lunerane at Freesound.org
DSCASIN1 ~ DSCASIN3 - Bouncing Shell Casings (Various Sizes) by GryffDavid at Freesound.org

DSSHELL1 ~ DSSHELL3 - Shinobi doom mod by RSL

DSDRYFIR - Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault

DSJKPKUP - Reelism doom mod by Kinsie

DSFLSHT1 ~ DSFLSHT3 - Half-Life 2

DSWPPKUP - Qtest Sound effects from Quake Wiki

dsradio, DSFOPKUP, DSBOMRLD, DSRUNLOD, DSPISCLP, DSCHGGU2, DSREVCLS and DSREVOPN - From your mod, Silly! Edited them a little. Like, made them cleaner and fades out better.

And other sound effects are all from Black Mesa.

//// And back to me //////


Textures-
Okay, I'm not really a texture artist, so most are rips or edits of rips. Some are edits of photographs. I'm hoping to replace most or all of the original rips with original content, but it's slow going.
Raven, 3d Realms, Monolith, Xatrix entertainment, Bethesda Softworks (for the old Skynet stuff), of course Id software as well.

Realm667 and various contributors for some props and sounds.
Specifically; Gothic, Captain Awesome, CaptainToenail, Bloax, EttinGrinder.
MagicWazard for his/her (?) Terrain Splashes plugin.