Runner: Zero-Master
Date: 2016-07-31
IWAD: DOOM2.wad
Category: NM-Speed
Map: Movie 1-30
Source Port: Competition Doom v2.0.3.2
Time: 22:56 (23:11.89)
	
Map	Time	
01	00:06	:)
02	00:49	:)
03	00:33	:))
04	00:36	:))
05	00:32	:))
06	01:03	:)
07	00:21	:)
08	00:29	:|
09	01:03	:)
10	00:40	:)
11	00:37	:)
12	00:51	:)))
13	01:18	:((
14	00:24	:)
15	00:39	:|
31	00:35	:(
16	00:17	:)
17	01:56	:(
18	00:26	:|
19	00:49	:)
20	00:39	:)
21	00:27	:((
22	00:37	:)
23	00:49	:)
24	00:45	:|
25	01:01	:)
26	00:40	:))
27	00:30	:))
28	00:54	:(
29	01:47	:)
30	00:43	:(((

	
Description:
Finally this nightmare comes to an end!

This *should* be the last minute barrier for 30nm, while there is always time to
be saved in doom, I cannot imagine the amount of luck you'd need for a time under
22 minutes. 

At first I thought the time wasn't going to be good enough, but the first 12 maps 
went extremely well, the first 10 maps were only 4 seconds slower than my best, 
with map 11 and 12 I think this might have been my best run up until map 13. 
Unfortuntately I got blocked by an arachnotron on map 13, that's very rare.
It might have been because I fired my chaingun a frame or so too early\late, I'm
not sure, either way this usually never happens. 

The second big time loss was map 21, I need to get that glide very quickly, 
this time I failed to kill the imps with the SSG, so I also failed the glide 
costing 5 seconds. The biggest time loss was on map 30, again I get some bad 
luck here... last time I got an arch-vile which just straight up threw me off 
the elevator and that's it. So a revenant isn't the worst, I also believe the 
chance of homing rockets are 50%, it would never had hit me if it wasn't a homing rocket.
Finally it also did 60 damage so I barely missed the rocket, I think with a lower damage 
roll it would have worked, though I could maybe have stood a bit further too the right on 
the platform.


Map comments:
Map 01: The shortest map, usually quite easy. Might even be easier on NM than 
on UV since monsters attack immidiatly and so they don't move to block you. 
Only once did I manage to get 5.97, but that required me to get past the imp faster, 
which is more likely to cause you to take damage so I avoid even going for it.


Map 02: The map I am most likely to die on, for obvious reasons. No weapons and no armor, 
plenty of hitscan and not too much health pickups. My best time ever on this map is 38 seconds. 
Current IL record is 42 seconds (obviously easy to improve), and you can even skip the 
shotgunners that aren't next to the 32-unit gap. So I would say 36 seconds would be possible for an IL, 
would require some insane luck though.


Map 03: I do a setup on the elevator which gives me the best chance of reaching the secret while 
at the same time not waking up the chaingunner by the teleport exit. This will prevent him from 
moving around and also cause infighting with the other chaingunner. Not shooting will also prevent 
the shotgunner by the blue key door window from waking up, makes the blue key skip easier. 
Even if I fail skipping the blue key I don't lose too much time, as I don't have to run past 
the spectres again. Usually I would really like to avoid running on the rising bridge, 
as there is no air control you have no control of your movement and moving too fast or taking a 
projectile can push you off very easily then. 


Map 04: I don't shoot a rocket at the initial shotgunners since it doesn't really do anything, 
and instead I let the infight first before running past them. I then instead use 2 rockets to 
make sure the chaingunner dies and try to hit the 3rd rocket on the other chaingunners. 
Since I never woke up some of the imps the 4th rocket will usually always do plenty of damage. 


Map 05: This is also a difficult map, good chance I will die here. I tried a lot of different 
things for this map, now I pretty much just skip the mega armor every time and hope for the best.
It's faster anyways, but grabbing the mega armor might actually be a good idea if you're already
on a good time and would like to survive. This time my health was good.


Map 06: There are 3 "jumps" here that can be quite annoying. I made a small change to the way I do
the last jump, it works a lot better. 


Map 07: My current route for this map is pretty good, sometimes you can ignore a manc or two if you want to.
One of the mancs on the left side didn't move far enough down so I had to kill him. My time was pretty decent
so I didn't want to risk anything. 


Map 08: This map is very easy, only way to die on this map is for the barons to push you into 
the acid at the exit. However, it is also easy to lose time by getting blocked by a baron not 
moving, or worse the cyberdemon. 


Map 09: Skipping the mega armor at the start of this map will make map 10 and 11 a lot easier, 
also map 12 if you can keep at least 100 of it until to pass the green armor. 
This map used to be very dangerous when I go through the door before the mega armor, 
as there can be pain elementals, cacodemons, shotgunners or imps blocking your way while 
you are getting shot at by everything including some mancubi. However, I managed to find 
a way to remove that problem, by introducing a rocket jump at the start to skip hitting 
all the switches opening up the monster closets. Took quite some time before I found an 
angle that will give me a high enough success rate, but luckily it existed! This rocket 
jump is done a bit differently, I use strafe right for a few tics before I fire and 
then straferun backwards. 


Map 10: Much easier with mega armor, you still need to keep some health for the next map 
so you can skip the soulsphere.


Map 11: Also much easier with mega armor. I've seen a lot of stupid shit kill me on this map, 
like lost souls managing to block me from hitting the first switch, cacodemon blocking the 
pathway, going from moving forwards to directly backwards after colliding with the wall\PE 
before the jump down to the cacodemons, lost soul getting in more amazing blocks down by the cacodemons, 
respawns in the last sections, imps on the elevator.... 


Map 12: One of the few sections where you get a short break at the start. It's very rare to 
die before reaching the cacodemons, but it can happen after green armor by the shotgunners. 
My strategy for the cacodemon room works very well, make sure to clear the 3 cacodemons in 
the middle before taking the one in the upper right corner. You will always have to wait for 
the elevator at the upper left so you kill that one and the upper middle caco before hitting 
those switches. The only other switch you have to wait for the elevator is the upper right one, 
and it should always be up if you do things correctly.


Map 13: Just had to get blocked by the arachnotron... Easy map to survive, 
impossible to get a good time.


Map 14: I don't like this map, nothing more annoying than dying here, because it is such an easy map. 
There's plenty of health around so that's not the issue, it's the wallrun trick that sometimes fail. 
I've been doing it wrong several times before, my current method should work all the time, stupid of 
me not to use it earlier and before I wasted a few runs here. One of the most random ways was to lose 
the wall woble state was while I had a certain angle and was using SR40 which suddenly bounced me 
off from a flat wall. I took me some time to be able to reproduce the mistake so it was a very rare occurence, 
so I didn't discover it while I practiced it, and instead it ruined one of my attempts.


Map 15: I hate this map too, the jump down to the switch\cells is always really scary. 
Not much I can do and run forward, and so it's all up to the hitscan if they will push me off, 
or even just kill me. Doesn't happen too often though.


Map 31: One thing I noticed on this map is that the SS soldiers can face you, but shoot backwards when infighting. 
It was kind of confussing at first because it looks like they are always trying to shoot you. 
I'll use the plasma rifle by the 4th last door and a BFG in the last room to minimize damage taken. 


Map 16: BFG to clear everything and just do the glide quickly... usually works... usually.


Map 17: There is a lot of health and armor throughout the map, so it is not that difficult, 
but I have died a few more times that I would like on this map. Usually it's after yellow key switch to 
the chaingunner, which should be really uneccsary if I just try to kill him with the SSG first. 
I use 2 BFG's at the yellow key area, which makes things faster and easier, as it kills the chaingunner 
on top who usually goes hiding and pops back out to kill you.


Map 18: This map is straightforward, unless I have really bad health I will skip the soulsphere here, 
since often it is not necessary. Of course I have actually died on this map 3 times, one of them was when 
I grabbed the soulsphere anyways. 


Map 19: This map used to be very easy, but I've died 3 times on this map, all after the first teleporter. 
Demons are really fast on nightmare, one of them managed to get between me and the door while there was 
another one infront of me and they killed me very quickly. 


Map 20: This map should be easy, but it's nightmare so anything can happen. The cacodemon after the 
first teleporter sometimes leaves the room which wastes a BFG and several seconds because he has to die. 
I've died going through the next teleporter because you can't kill the hitscan before they start shooting you.
I've died the most by the pain elemental, but that was before I started using a BFG on him every time. 
The rest is straigtforward, I move to the right right after the last teleporter to wake up the 
revenants so they are in a more favourable position which makes them less likely to hit.


Map 21: Some new strategy here, previously I would go back through the teleporter, 
but then I started using a BFG to clear the imps. Now I just use the SSG and line up 
the best angle to get the glide as quickly as possible instead. Projectiles will hit 
you very soon so you have to get the glide quickly, which I didn't manage to do this time.


Map 22: Very difficult map, it's possible to do a rocket jump and a jump to skip the last elevator, 
each saving 3 seconds. This map fails so often that I try to take it as safe as I can while still 
getting a consistent decent time. I need the health for the next map anyways. I have spent so many hours 
trying to find a good route for this map, more than any other map I think at this point 
(though probably not nearly as much as some maps of plutonia). I also accidently switched
to the SSG here, cost me a lot of health.


Map 23: You will always take damage from the chaingunners after the first teleporter, 
so depending on your health you can decide if you want to use a BFG to clear everything 
and grab the berzerk and 2 backpacks, which costs about 4-5 seconds. The barrel wallrun can be done 
if you skip the linedef at the start on nightmare, see 30nm2620.txt for more info.
Also that damn arch-vile got me, small mistake from me.


Map 24: Ah map 24, how many times have I failed that wallrun... I've even died to the demons.
The lost souls are pretty much everything here, I fire a BFG before going into the area as it will 
usually clear a couple of them which have a decent chance of blocking me and thus killing me.
I missed a demon with the BFG which cost me a lot of time since I used the SSG to kill him.
Only 2 lost souls after I spent another BFG to clear ever more of them, I make sure to fire
the BFG in the left direction as lost souls on the right side should never be a problem.

Map 25: I grab some extra cells here, I was already low on health so it's just safer to do it like that.

Map 26: I died here twice not too long ago, and wow is that annoying. Both of them to failed jump over
to the yellow key. 

Map 27: Around 15% chance he doesn't open the door, this time he did.

Map 28: Should have skipped the megasphere I think.

Map 29: I changed this route a bit, without losing any time. I can't do both rocket jumps since
that would never work on nightmare. This way I don't have to worry about keeping so much health 
for the rocket jump to the last teleporter. I still have to lower 1 barricade and make it using SR50, 
but I found a new setup which makes it a bit easier and just barely beats respawn. 

Map 30: Everything was fine until the revenant spawned on the 4th spawn. I always kill the 1st 
spawn and the 5th spawn never has the time to do anything. That leaves me with 3 possiblities.
Pain elementals aren't too bad, more often than not when I practice I would get the 1-cycle.
Still a bit close to 50/50, a revenant however is very unpredictable as you never know
what the rockets will do. If they aren't homing rockets they do nothing, if they do almost no 
damage it's also fine. This time I got hit by 60 damage which pushed me a bit too far. 

Earlier I had an even better run, and that gave me an arch-vile on the 4th spawn... there was
no chance at all. Eventually I died to a cube\telefrag there.

Many years ago now there used to be some back and forth competition between Vile and Henning,
it's awesome to once again have a bit of back and forth for this category with eLim!

Thanks to all of them and of course I learned a lot from Looper as well from UV...
which reminds me, all this nightmare should make UV easy... should.. we'll see if
doom 2 can't be pushed maybe a bit further in the future as well.
