PWAD - Deus Vult (DV.WAD)
FILE - DV01-UVMAX1.lmp
Map  - Map01 (Insurgents)
Type - UV MAXDEMO (100/100)
Port - zDOOM 2.0.63
Plr  - Converted Doomer

Kills   -  100%
Items   -   ??%
Secrets -  100%

Time    - ??

Description :

The owner recording his own map, I took some serious demo lessons by watching Rich's
nutty demos, which always seems to be faster than mine, and he's a bloody keyboarder...
Anyways, this map isn't overwhelmingly tough as it might first appear to be, just use the
right weapons at the right time and you should be fine, here's the few sticking point if
ur not careful:

1) The Nukage Pool: Once you approach that pool, the doors shut and you're locked in! Don't 
                    fret, there's just enough ammo and health to get you by, those chaingunners
                    can become a serious hitpoint sapper if you don't take them out first, so
                    take them out first! Then concentrate on blasting the mancubis up the balcony,
                    since they guard some valuable armors and medkits. The general strategy is 
                    to KEEP ON MOVING and DO NOT STOP, circle circle circle, not too bad...

2) The Hell Temple: All hell breaks loose, literally. It's 200 to 1 odds, but you'll win if you know 
                    when to use which weapon, as long as you have the invulnerability, rocket spam all 
                    the time, but once it wears off, trust your old shotty and plasma gun and kill them
                    all QUICKLY, or you'll face dire consequences later on... 

3) Cyberdemon Lair: It's a large dark lair, with pulsating streams of blood and satanic icons, oh,
                    and there's cyberdemons in it, heh. It's an oldskool game of dodgeball! Cept with
                    rockets and the other team outnumbers you 5 to 1, but fear not, an invuln lies at
                    the suicidal dead end, that should soften up two cyberdemons. Mop up the rest
                    with the shotty, and the first level is finished, nothing too harsh.

This first level should give the single player a nice warm up to the harder levels ahead of him.
Hope this starts you off on ur journey to beating DV!

Enjoy,
- Huy

Richie :

Huy did an awesome job on this demo... Its got some pretty hairy moments in my eyes, and its hard to
believe that he flies through it so easily. I think the hardest parts in the map would have to be....

1) The Hell Temple : Geez, talk about a helluva warp here man... :) I always seem to have an attachment
   to the rocket launcher that always ends up being my demise... :) I hate lost souls in rooms where you
   concentrate your fire on other monsters, and they commit suicide and take you with them... :)

2) The Cyberdemon Lair : Tough, tough and tough... Its one of those fights where you'll really need to 
   use the invuln that lies near the dead end. After the invuln wears off, your bound to have an around
   three or four of the cybos remaining.... When the invuln and plasma are gone, its time to use the old
   ssg.... Fun, Fun.