PWAD - Deus Vult (DV.WAD)
FILE - DV02-UVMAX1.lmp
Type - UV MAXDEMO (100/100)
Map  - Map02 (Torture Chamber)
Port - Zdoom 2.63
Plr  - Ragnew

Kills   -  100%
Items   -   78%
Secrets -  100%

Time    - 43:39

Description :

DAMN, now this is a hard ass level!!! In all honesty, its probably one of the hardest maps
I've had to record a run on!! There are so many places that will lead to a sudden death, as
that is what happens so very, very often in this unforgiving place!!! Some of the hardest
parts in my opinion would be the following....

1) The beginning of the map in general, holy shit, talk about a bunch of Viles!!! I've been
   a fan of these monsters for quite sometime, but when they're given the opportunity to
   run around in such a large area, they can do a ton of damage. All I can say, is play it
   safe, and kill as many of them bastards as you can when you drop off of the BFG tower.

2) The satanic Room with the yellow key card... What do you get when you mix a dozen Revs
   and a couple of Viles??? Trouble, and a BUNCH of it. The only thing to do in this area is
   swipe the yellow key and make a bee-line straight for the invuln. With luck all of the 
   Viles and most of the Revs will be dead. If not, well, you always have a rocket launcher!

3) The "Star Gate" battle, now this one is fun... Too bad it takes you so damn long to get
   to it...hehe. Use the Star Gate as an obsticle that'll lead to a bunch of infights...
   Keep on circle strafing it and you'll have a bunch of the monsters kill each other off
   for you.... Oh, and watch out for the four Vile brothers, and the pair of Cyberdemons!!!

So all in all, a great map again... Although, now I'm done playing it... :)

Enjoy,
- Richie

Huy: Although it appears that he is going around in circles at certain times, Rich was just
     looking out for backstabbers lurking in the map, and there are plenty of them if you're
     not careful. This map takes some mastering... If you survive this map, give
     yourself a pat on the back.