                        DEUS VULT II: The First Edition                      
=============================================================================
                            = Version 2008-02-25c =
=============================================================================

--------------
C O N T E N T:
--------------

1.  INTRODUCTION

2.  INSTALLATION
    2.1  Quick and Easy Install
    2.2  Differing Versions of DVII
    2.3  Compatibility

3.  STORYLINE

4.  GAMEPLAY
    4.1  Single Player
    4.2  Cooperative
    4.3  No Deathmatch
    
5.  DEMO RECORDING
    5.1  Single Player Demo Recording
    5.2  Cooperative Demo Recording
    5.3  Demo Recording with PrBoom-Plus 2.4.8.3-Beta
    5.4  Demo Recording with ZDoom 2.2.0
           5.4.1: ZDoom 2.2.0 Single Player Demo-recording
           5.4.2: ZDoom 2.2.0 Co-op Demo-recording

6.  NOVELTIES
    6.1  New Weapons
           6.1.1 Dual Pistols
           6.1.2 Sauron's Gauntlets
    6.2  New Monsters
           6.2.1 Hell Cleric
           6.2.2 Flying Balrog

7.  LEVEL INFORMATION

8.  BUGS

9.  AUTHOR INFORMATION
    9.1  Self-Input
    9.2  Favorite Games
    9.3  Random Thoughts on Mapping

10. CREDIT
    10.1  Acknowledgements
    10.2  Special Thanks
    10.3  Doomers and their projects that influenced DVII 

11. LEGAL STUFF
    11.1  Original Resources
    11.2  Modified Resources
    11.3  Borrowed Resources
    11.4  Usage of Resources

12. QUICK OVERVIEW



-----------------
[1] INTRODUCTION
-----------------

A Doom2 modification made by a Doomer.

The first edition of the sequel to the original Deus Vult. Heavily 
emphasizes co-op play and demo recording. Offers a wide variety of gameplay
spanning nine levels, including gun n' run maps, slaughterfests, and tight
survival maps. From small techbases to hellish cathedrals, Deus Vult
II's levels are diverse in architecture as they are in gameplay, and offer
a little bit of everything for the entire family.



-----------------
[2] INSTALLATION
-----------------
    2.1  Quick and Easy Install
    2.2  Differing Versions of DVII
    2.3  Compatibility

You need a sourceport to run Deus Vult II, the two main
sourceports to use for this mod are either PrBoom-Plus or ZDoom.

To download PrBoom-Plus, visit http://sourceforge.net/projects/prboom-plus
To download ZDoom, visit http://zdoom.org/
To download GZDoom, visit http://grafzahl.drdteam.org/

Furthermore, you need Doom2.wad to run DVII properly. Doom2.wad is a
file found in your Doom2 directory after installing a licensed copy of Doom2 
into your computer. The sourceport will need to run Doom2.wad in 
conjunction with DVII-1i.wad or DVII-1u.wad to execute this mod.

If you have any questions regarding installation, feel free to email
DVII's author at BusyBeaverHP@GMail.com

[2.1 Quick and Easy Install]
--------------------------------

1) Download the sourceport zDoom at http://www.Zdoom.org (or GZDoom at 
   http://grafzahl.drdteam.org). It is recommended that you run DVII
   with the provided sourceports in DVII-1i.zip / DVII-1u.zip.

2) Extract the desired sourceport to a new folder, and place 'DOOM2.WAD' in
   that newly created folder.

4) Drag "DVII-1i.wad" or "DVII-1U.wad" into the same location of the zDoom
   folder.

5) Drop and Drag the "DVII-1i.wad" or "DVII-1U.wad" onto the "Zdoom.exe" or 
   "gzdoom.exe" file.

6) The game will then automatically start with Deus Vult II.

Enjoy!

Note: DOOM2.WAD is found in your DOOM2 Directory. If you do not have it,
you may purchase it from either http://www.idsoftware.com or 
http://www.steampowered.com. For more information, visit 
http://www.doomworld.com.


[2.2 Differing Versions of DVII]
--------------------------------

There are two versions of DVII: First Edition floating around the net, 
differing only in terms of music distribution. Demo playback and levelwise,
they are all identical. The breakdown of the specific differences 
in each version...

DVII-1i.wad: The Idgames Archive Edition of DVII, music for Map12 
             and Map22 are different from DVII-1u. The MP3 files that are 
             present in DVII are free SPC music files converted to MP3s. 
             The music in this version meet the conditions of files 
             uploaded to the Idgames Archive.

DVII-1u.wad: The Ultimate Edition of DVII, this version has the ideal 
             soundtracks for Map12 and Map22 in MP3s. It makes a 
             HUGE difference in terms of ingame atmosphere. This is the 
             best and preferred version of DVII in the author's eyes.
             
             DVII-1u.wad can be obtained by specifically emailing the 
             author (BusyBeaverHP@GMail.com) requesting a copy of such,
             or downloaded wherever available.


[2.3 Compatibility]
-------------------

DVII uses Boom-Compatible features in its maps.

DVII has been proven to run on PrBoom-Plus 2.4.8.3-Beta, GZDoom 1.1.10 and 
ZDoom 2.2.0. I can't account for DVII on any other versions of those ports, 
or any other ports for that matter.

ZDoom 2.2.0 runs DVII with MP3s, and shows no bugs, if you are playing DVII 
for the first time, THIS is the port to use.

GZDoom 1.1.10 basically runs DVII as solidly as ZDoom 2.2.0, but with 
accelerated hardware, you can get smoother framerates out of this port 
than say, ZDoom.(depending on the circumstances). This is a great port 
to run Deus Vult II in as well.

PrBoom-Plus 2.4.8.3-Beta will run DVII without crashing, thanks to Entryway's
last minute advice, this is the port of choice for demo-recording.

If newer ports of PrBoom-Plus runs DVII with less bugs and slimetrails than
2.4.8.3-Beta, then let those ports replace PrBoom-Plus 2.4.8.3-Beta as the 
DVII demo-recording sourceport.



----------------
[3] STORYLINE
----------------

After saving Mars from Hell's demonic invasion, you and your buddies
went back to Earth and found it overrun with the same hellspawns. Most of
humanity including your family and friends are safely evacuated to distant
reaches of space while the world's military fights the demons on Earth.
With nobody to save and a planet full of baddies, the only assignment for
your platoon is to clean house!

You will fight through rivers, dams, valleys, mountains, hills, outposts, 
and even your backyard... you will do as you have done on Mars... kick some
demonic butt... then, you will take the fight off Earth and bring it into
their own backyard... it's time! RAWRGGGH!!!



------------
[4] GAMEPLAY
------------

    4.1  Single Player
    4.2  Cooperative
    4.3  No Deathmatch

Deus Vult II's gameplay focuses on subjecting the player to a variety of
combat scenarios across different environments. In order to survive, the
player must fight or evade enemies and reach the exit point of each map.

If you are playing Doom on a sourceport with additional options that promote
ingame behaviors that were not part of original Doom, like jumping,
freelook, finite actor heights, etc... that may affect DVII's gameplay
negatively, and may even get your player to become stuck.

If you don't care about the stuff related to ingame behavior as mentioned
above, just follow this one rule for Pete's sake: NO JUMPING OR CROUCHING!

Thanks to ZDoom's powerful Mapinfo, you don't need to worry about
compatability problems. We decided to leave infinitely tall actors 
alone regarding this, as some people do not want this limitation.


[4.1 Single Player]
-------------------

Deus Vult II's single player gameplay have been adjusted and balanced to be
completable from pistol start up to the Ultra-Violence skill setting.

When played as a series of level, the start of many DVII levels will prove
laughably easy as the player accumulate extra health, ammo, and weaponry 
from the previous level(s). If the player wants to challenge himself, 
begin all maps from pistol start. 

Description of DVII difficulty settings:

I'M TOO YOUNG TO DIE: Skill 1 is for newcomers to Doom. If you can read
                      this, Brent and Jonathan, choose this skill on your
                      first time through DVII.

HEY, NOT TOO ROUGH: Skill 2 and lower are for newbies and novice Doomers. 
                    Play on this skill setting when you want to scrutinize 
                    the architecture of the levels without getting a rocket 
                    in the face.

HURT ME PLENTY: Skill 3 is calibrated for veteran Doomers who wants 
                challenging, but non-frustrating play through DVII. The 
                enemy lineup on this skill level is far more resistant than 
                Skill 2, so you need to have decent First Person Shooter 
                experience before starting out the game on HMP.

ULTRA VIOLENCE: On skill 4, most of DVII will be about the same difficulty 
                as Alien Vendetta's third episode on UV. It will be hard,
                and veteran Doomers looking for a death challenge will be
                pleased with the later levels. DVII isn't unfair on UV, but 
                be warned now and again that some of the later Hell areas 
                will pit you against insane opposition as you've never seen 
                the likes.

NIGHTMARE: DVII have not been tested on skill 5. Nightmare-Speed looks
           favorable on some maps but has yet to be demonstrated. As far as 
           Nightmare-Max goes, it probably won't be fair, in fact, I'm sure
           you'll die trying, play it at your own risk.

The general difficulty progression for all skill levels (except Nightmare)
increases gently with every level... then Hell is introduced. The Hell levels
are hard, probably exponentially harder than the previous levels in terms
of fireight intensity. The DVII difficulty slope turns into an 
asymptote the moment you reach the first hell maps. Basically, the Hell 
levels on HURT ME PLENTY and ULTRA VIOLENCE will stop most players dead.
Have fun!

There are two exits for each level. A conventional exit and a suicide exit.
The suicide exit will allow for a faster speedrun, but you'll have to 
find it first, and convince one of the monsters to let you under! 
Happy hunting!

All levels can be exitable without dying from
pistol start on Skill 4 in single-player mode.


[4.2 Cooperative]
-----------------

In addition to a single-player, cooperative is an imperative for DVII.
Not only for two player, but three and four player cooperative as well.

The DVII levels contain mechanisms that allows for supplementation 
of ammo exclusively into player 3 and 4 should they be present in co-op,
without interfering with the 2-player coop ammo/health balance. 

In other words, DVII's two-player co-op is gameplay-balanced to a fine 
bpoint, but should there be a 3rd or 4th player present, they will gain
health and ammo bonuses right from the start without having to touch any 
ingame items.

On Skill 4 (Ultra-Violence) and Skill 5 (Nightmare), Cooperative Mode will
feature monsters that would otherwise not be present in single player. 
Beware.

All levels can be exitable without either players dying with 
pistol start on Skill 4 in two-player cooperative.


[4.3 No Deathmatch]
-------------------

All levels of DVII are geared towards single and cooperative play. 
However, there are some source ports like Legacy that support X>4 player
cooperative by spawning the extra players into Deathmatch Starts. 
In which case, the Deathmatch Starts can accomodate the extra players
in such ports.

There are four deathmatch starts per level, but no other DM provision.



------------------
[5] DEMO RECORDING
------------------

    5.1  Single Player Demo Recording
    5.2  Cooperative Demo Recording
    5.3  Demo Recording with PrBoom-Plus 2.4.8.3-Beta
    5.4  Demo Recording with ZDoom 2.2.0
           5.4.1: ZDoom 2.2.0 Single Player Demo-recording
           5.4.2: ZDoom 2.2.0 Co-op Demo-recording
	   5.4.3: ZDoom compat and dmflags breakdown

Both PrBoom-Plus and ZDoom are acceptable as official demo recording 
ports for DVII. The following sections will define the conditions 
accompanying official DVII demo-recording...


[5.1 Single Player Demo Recording]
----------------------------------

Both PrBoom-Plus and ZDoom are acceptable as official demo recording ports
for DVII's single player demo recording, provided they follow the 
conditions set by 5.3 & 5.4 and their corresponding subsections.

The Automap cheat (IDDT) is acceptable in DVII single player demo-recording.


[5.2 Cooperative Demo Recording]
--------------------------------

Both PrBoom-Plus and ZDoom are acceptable as official demo recording ports
for DVII's cooperative player demo recording, provided they follow the 
conditions set by 5.3 & 5.4 and their corresponding subsections.


[5.3 Demo Recording with PrBoom-Plus 2.4.8.3-Beta]
---------------------------------------------

If you plan on recording demos for DVII with PrBoom-Plus, make sure the
following is in the .cfg:

<default_compatibility_level     9>

...Without the brackets.

"Otherwise pain and suffering 
lie ahead. (This is the complevel that emulates Boom 2.02. 
The complevels aren't a minor thing - they make a massive 
difference to how things behave in-game.)" - Graham Burgess [Grazza]

Command Line for launching PrBoom-Plus with single player conditions:
prboom-plus complevel 9 -file <filename> -skill # -record <DemoName>
-longtic

On -file <filename>, the <filename> should be replaced with DVII-1i,
or DVII-1u, depending on the version that you have, but without the 
<> brackets.

On -skill #, set this to the skill for recording.

1 = I'm Too Young To Die
2 = Hey Not Too Rough
3 = Hurt me plenty
4 = Ultra Violence
5 = Nightmare

On -record <DemoName>, the <DemoName> should be replaced with whatever
name you want your demo to be, and there should be no <> brackets.

On -longtic, this command is optional, but it does make your mouse
movement less problematic in PrBoom-Plus 2.4.8.3-Beta. In Vanilla Doom, if
you were recording, the way the tics were saved to the demo file changed
the accuracy of the mouse turning: small mouse movements didn't do anything
and normal movements were more jumpy. Longtic allievates this problem.


[5.4 Demo Recording with ZDoom 2.2.0]
-------------------------------------

ZDoom is a great sourceport and is perfectly acceptable as a demo-recording
port for DVII. There are, however, many behaviors in ZDoom that deviate
from original Doom behavior, such as the option to jump, crouch, or even 
set actors to be finitely tall. Such things should be minimized through 
adjusting compatibility and dmflags.

Basically, any option in ZDoom that promote behaviors which were not
originally in Boom 2.02 should be disabled when it comes to DVII demo
recording. 

The following subsections 5.4.1 and 5.4.2 define the official
parameters of ZDoom demo recording in single and cooperative mode.


5.4.1: ZDoom 2.2.0 Single Player Demo-recording
-----------------------------------------------

Mike's Input on ZDoom 2.2.0 single player demo recording 
for DVII:

With the exception of infinitely tall actors, all compatability options
are maintained by a mapinfo lump.
So you only need to worry about this option. The rest are taken care of.

When recording demos in singleplayer, use this command line:

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
zdoom.exe -file <filename> +compatflags 16501 +dmflags 267059200 
+dmflags2 32768 -skill # -record <DemoName>
--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

The dmflags and dmflags2 will set zdoom to run with the gameplay 
settings to as close as possible to boom. There is no mouselook, 
jumping, or crouching.

On -file <filename>, the <filename> should be replaced with DVII-1i,
or DVII-1u, depending on the version that you have, but without the 
<> brackets.

On -skill #, set this to the skill for recording.

1 = I'm Too Young To Die
2 = Hey Not Too Rough
3 = Hurt me plenty
4 = Ultra Violence
5 = Nightmare (insane kudos to anybody who pulls a 
               run of map20 or map21 on NM)

Skill is 4 is the ideal level for demo recording.

On -record <DemoName>, the <DemoName> should be replaced with whatever
name you want your demo to be, and there should be no <> brackets.


5.4.2: ZDoom 2.2.0 Co-op Demo-recording
----------------------------------------

Mike's Input on ZDoom 2.2.0 co-op demo recording for DVII:

Unfortunately, it is simply impractical to play PrBoom online, therefore
the Coop demos are performed only on ZDoom 2.2.0 (unless theres a team
of lan coop demo recorders).

The variables required for coop demo recording:

compatflags 16501
dmflags 267059200
dmflags2 32768
teamplay true
teamdamage 1 

These settings enable Friendlyfire, and as stated in the previous
section, there is no mouselook, jumping, or crouching.

Command Line for launching ZDoom with co-op conditions:

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
zdoom.exe -file <filename> +compatflags 16501 +dmflags 267059200 
+dmflags2 32768 +teamplay true +teamdamage 1 -host # -skill # 
-record <DemoName>
--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

On -file <filename>, the <filename> should be replaced with DVII-1i,
or DVII-1u, depending on the version that you have, but without the 
<> brackets.

On -host #, set the # to the number of people who will be playing
(including the host).

On -skill #, set this to the skill for recording.

1 = I'm Too Young To Die
2 = Hey Not Too Rough
3 = Hurt me plenty
4 = Ultra Violence
5 = Nightmare

Skill 4 is the idela level for demo recording.

On -record <DemoName>, the <DemoName> should be replaced with whatever
name you want your demo to be, and there should be no <> brackets.

5.4.3: ZDoom compatability flags breakdown
----------------------------------------

Ideally, the flags should always be set as:

compatflags 16501
------------------
Find Shortest Textures Like Doom: Yes
Use Buggier Stair Building: No
Limit Pain Elementals' Lost Souls: Yes
Don't Let Others Hear Your Pickups: No
Actors Are Infinitely Tall: Yes
Criplle Sound For Silent BFG Trick: Yes
Enable Wall Running: Yes
Spawn Item Drops On The Floor: No
All Special Lines Can Block Use <USE>: No
Disable Boom Door LighT Effect: No
Raven Scrollers use Original Speed: No
Use Original Sound Target Handling: No
DEH HealtH Settings LIke Doom2.exe: No
Self Ref. Sectors Don't BLock Shots: No
Monsters Get Stuck Over Dropoffs: Yes
Boom Scrollers Are Additive: No
Interpolate Monster Movement: Yes

Again, these flags (except infinitely tall actors) are managed 
by the MAPINFO, so it is recommended that these settings be left alone.

As far as dmflags go, just make sure crouch, jumping, and whatever
else deviates from boom 2.02 behavior is disabled.



-------------
[6] NOVELTIES
-------------

    6.1  New Weapons
           6.1.1 Dual Pistols
           6.1.2 Sauron's Gauntlets
    6.2  New Monsters
           6.2.1 Hell Cleric
           6.2.2 Flying Balrog

With respect to Doom2, Deus Vult II feature novel gameplay elements such
as new weapons and monsters.


[6.1] New Weapons
-----------------

Deus Vult II feature two new weapons that are fun to use, but at the same
time, appropriate to the gameplay balance. The Dual Pistols give a more 
powerful, dynamic start to the level. While Sauron's Gaunlets represent 
the ultimate melee weapon, giving the player a third melee option that's
fun to use as it is deadly.


6.1.1: Dual Pistols
-------------------

With the inummerable odds stacked against you and your platoon, you need all
the firepower you can get. One pistol gets you by, two of them will
double your chances of surviving what's around the next corner...

The Dual Pistols are your default weapons when starting out the game
on all difficulties.

The Dual Pistols discharge two bullets per firing command (given that your 
ammo count is greater than 1), has faster response time than the single 
Doom2 pistol and firing rate is approximately 3 times as fast... effectively
giving this default weapon approximately as much stopping power as the 
shotgun.

It should be noted that the shotgun generally inflicts a higher rate 
of damage than the Dual Pistols, and the chaingun's rate of fire is still 
faster. Nonetheless, the Dual Pistols are excellent for stunning individual 
enemies in their track with their constant barrage of hot lead.


6.1.2: Sauron's Gauntlets
-------------------------

An artifact of the Dark Lord himself. Through his terrible powers, Sauron
poured his cruelty, his malice, and his will to dominate all life into
these gauntlets. Many have said that Sauron's gauntlets were destroyed when 
the Dark Lord fell in his last battle, but legends of old persisted that 
evil lives on... that this artifact is guarded in hell, awaiting its 
master's return...

Sauron's Gauntlets are melee weapons that strike the enemy continuously 
with death rays at close range. All but the strongest bestiaries can be
taken down under the power of this amazing artifact without much
resistance.


[6.2] New Monsters
------------------

DVII feature two new bestiaries: The Hell Cleric and the Flying Balrog.

The Hell Cleric is added as a fodder and anti-melee unit. DVII called
for an in-between monster that's tougher than an imp, but not as resistant 
as a revenant or hell knight... a bestiary that saps the player's health 
quickly but can be killed with a single supershotgun blast. Hence the 
Cleric was introduced into DVII.

The Flying Balrog, or Red Baron, is added as a flying sub-boss unit. DVII
called for an extremely dangerous unit that can be killed with a single,
precise BFG blast, hence the Flying Balrog was added.


6.2.1 Hell Cleric
-----------------

Hit Point     = 200
Speed         = 12
Reaction Time = 5
Pain Chance   = 5/255
Height        = 64
Mass          = 200

Created from the lost souls of the strongest warriors entering damnation of 
Hell, the Hell Cleric is a warrior spirit entrapped in casings of armor. 
Wielding maces, second to none in hand-to-hand combat, ruthless as they are 
fast, these stealthy warriors are the Praetorian Guards of the Devil.

The Hell Cleric is silent as he does not generate alert sounds when on the 
prowl. The cleric's reaction time, movement, and especially melee speed, is 
lightning quick. Even with a beserk, the player does not have a favorable 
chance in melee against these warriors; their rate of attack is ungodly 
fast.

The Hell Cleric's pain chance is less than 2%, making him unlikely to flinch
upon taking damage.

The Hell Cleric has a favorable chance of killing a revenant in 
single-combat. Quite a feat considering that the revenant possess
150% more hitpoints than this armored lost soul.

The Hell Cleric's weakness is his low hit point, which gives him a good
chance of being killed with a single super shotgun blast and an almost 100%
chance of being killed with a single direct rocket hit. Despite his
quick melee, his ranged triple fireball attack is easy to dodge from afar
as they move rather slowly.


6.2.2 Flying Balrog
-------------------

Hit Point     = 1500
Speed         = 8
Reaction Time = 5
Pain Chance   = 30/255
Height        = unknown
Mass          = 400

Lord of shadow and flames, originating from the unknown depths of ancient 
Hell. Shrouded by embers and darkness, the Balrog takes the physical form 
of a fiery death satyr. Rumor whispers that the Balrog is the avatar of the 
Devil himself. Whatever this creature may be, death and destruction follow 
in its wake.

The Flying Balrog is a deadly creature that can destroy a healthy player in
full armor with a single volley of fireballs. Quick to attack upon sight of
target, this agressive creature wastes no time incinerating its victim.

A pair of Flying Balrogs can bring a cyberdemon down with impunity.

Slow moving, the Balrog's sluggish pace allows you some time to take cover 
and snipe him. Possessing 1.5 times the health of a Baron of Hell, the 
Flying Balrog can take serious punishment yet can still be killed by a 
single close-ranged BFG blast. 



---------------------
[7] LEVEL INFORMATION
---------------------

Map01                          
Level Name              : Entryway Pass
Author                  : Huy Pham
Editor Used             : Doom Builder 1.68, Deepsea 11.82, XWE
Finished                : December 30, 2007

Inspiration             : Hoover.wad
                          AV Map04 - Seclusion
                          Doom2 Map23 - Barrels O' Fun
                          Scythe's Episode 1
                          Hellcore Map04 - Brickyard
                          Byelomorye Dam from Goldeneye 007 (N64)

Description             : A road pass ascending into a fjord. rest areas
                          include several infested facilities. Time to
                          clean house, move out!

Author's Comment        : A speedmap, done in fifteen hours over three days.

                          One of the smaller Scythe-scaled maps of DVII.
                          Dense in weaker monsters, barrel chain reactions,
                          infighting, and plenty of health and ammo, this
                          map is built for fast-paced carnage.

                          This level's monster lineup was inspired by AV
                          Map04. Having only weaker fodder to mow down,
                          the gameplay is fast moving with plenty of 
                          opportunities for massacres.

                          If you're looking for a Scythe E1-like level, 
                          you'll love this map.                       

Tester Input [Mike]     : I love small scythe-like maps like this. 
			  They play so well and take virtually no time at 
			  all to play.
			
		          I liked the dam with a bunch of zombie men on 
			  it. 

			  Just watch out for those barrels in the blue room.
			  They are stacked by 5, so they are extremely 
			  lethal.

Fun Facts               : The SS Nightmare is a direct copy from AV Map03,
                          I wanted DVII to have symbolic link to Alien 
                          Vendetta, so there it is!

                          The road fight leading to the Photon Decay 
                          Detection Unit building is inspired by the 
                          Highway of Death in the 1991 Gulf War.

                          The Blue Key Room is a tribute to Ander Johnsen's
                          AV Map26's circular slaughterpool.


Map02
Level Name              : Mutagen
Author                  : Huy Pham
Editor Used             : Doom Builder 1.68, Deepsea 11.82, XWE 
Finished                : Summer 2004

Inspirations            : Vrack3.wad
                          AV Map31 - Killer Colors
                          AV Map03 - Cargo Depot

Description             : A Research Facility in the middle of a reservoir.

Author's Comment        : Right after the original DV was finished, I
                          played scythe's first episode and thought about
                          its unbelievable gameplay flow. I sketched out
                          some

                          Originally designed to be a four-minute 
                          scythe-ish speedmap, Mutagen accumulated some 
                          extra details and compartments over the years 
                          that makes it less of a speedrun than a classical
                          ten-minute map. Though you can exit in less than 
                          two minutes if you know your route.
                         
                          The architecture of Mutagen is highly centralized.
                          with gameplay pathways that weave in and out of 
                          the main building but never too far from the 
                          centroid of the level.

Tester Input [Mike]     : This map has been through at least five 
                          iterations that were fully acceptable maps. But 
                          Huy is a picky bastard. Thanks to that, the level 
                          flows unbelievably well, the monsters placement 
                          is solid, and even after playing it for what must 
                          be the two hundredth time, I'm still not sick of 
                          it. 
			  
			  A fairly easy map, but it's a fun one.
			  
Fun Facts		: The Blue Area is a tribute to AV Map31 - Killer 
                          Colors.

                          The descending elevator at the end of the level
                          is a tribute to Hell Revealed's Map31 - The
                          Descent.

                          The SS Nightmare can fit snugly into the lake. 
                          It has been tried.


Map03 
Level Name              : Crouching Demon, Hidden Archvile
Author                  : Huy Pham
Editor Used             : Doom Builder 1.68, Deepsea 11.82, XWE
Finished                : February 2008

Inspiration             : Grove.wad
                          HR Map26 - The Afterlife
                          Scythe II Map04 - The Cellar
                          Ninja Gaiden Sigma

Description             : The foothills of Mt. Fuji have been overrun by
                          the demonic forces, you know what to do... ready?
                          
Author's Comment        : Ya know, I haven't seen an Asian-themed map for
                          Doom, so I'm going to make one... because damnit,
                          Deus Vult II needs an Asian level!

                          I read up on Edo Architecture and found in 
                          practice that its design simplicity suited the 
                          Doom engine perfectly, with its orthogonal wood 
                          and panel design. All I had to do was find the 
                          suitable wood and leather textures, modify it, 
                          and out came this Asian graphic set for DVII.

                          Another huge influence that was the basis for this
                          map is B.P.R.D's Grove.wad, the forest that 
                          covered Grove was a brilliant idea on B.P.R.D's 
                          part: with some sprite replacement and 
                          Dehacked work, creating a deciduous forest is
                          possible in Doom. I carried this forest idea over 
                          to DVII and based Map03 on it.

                          Ammo and health are generous in this level;
                          foraging in the woods should give the player more
                          stuff than he'll ever need.

                          Instead of having monster closets, the 
                          monsters now "ambush" the player by jumping out 
                          from the thickets, and it worked quite well... In
                          some of the darker areas of the forests, it can be
                          downright creepy.

                          The Chessboards are gameplay motifs first seen in
                          Naggay Hiv's HR26. The player can now participate
                          in Wizard's Chess in the forest with monsters =)

                          Like Grove.wad, this map will lag the hell out of
                          underpowered CPUs due to the number of tree
                          sprites present, and even the the Dual Core 
                          systems will buckle under the thousand-odd trees
                          in the forest. Strangely enough, when tested under
                          GZDoom 1.1.10, this map ran smoother than it did
                          in ZDoom 2.2.0. Even PrBoom-Plus 2.4.8.3-Beta was able to
                          handle mass amounts of sprite and maintain 
                          maximum framerates. Note that I was using a Core 
                          2 Duo processor when testing this map out. In any
                          case, try out the different ports and see which 
                          ones give you the smoothest play for this map!

Tester Input [Mike]     : This map beckons the usage of GZDoom. It is the
	  		  only practical way to get a good Framerate.
		
		   	  This is the first Asian themed map I've ever seen
			  in Doom. 

	  		  The jungle here is full of traps. Grabbing that
			  seemingly innocent power up or clip of ammo
			  may be dangerous, so be on the lookout when forging
			  for supplies.

			  You require two of the three keys to exit this 
			  place, the yellow on a Go-Board, and the others on 
			  separate chess boards. If you feel you are a mighty
			  chess player at this point, you could also 
			  challenge the master himself.
			  
			  If you are clever, you may be able to get out of 
			  a fight or two.
		
			  The chess board with the Red Key and the Blue Armor
			  in particular is skippable, If you run towards the 
			  edge of the invisable wall where the key/armor is,
			  you can get it. I would say theres about a 1/20
			  chance though, and thats if you know how. So don't
			  be surprised if you never get it.

			  I love the yin yang in the structure. The white 
			  part has a brightness of 255, and the black 0.
			  So as you kill monsters warping through, some are 
			  very bright, and others completely dark.

			  If your getting blood-thirsty, you could also
			  dive into the valley. There is plenty of killing
			  to be done down there.

			  Also, bruce lee owns your face.

Fun Facts               : In case you can't tell what each type of monster
                          represent on the Chessboard, here is the cheat 
                          sheet...

                          Imp           - White Pawn
                          Demon         - Black Pawn
                          Hell Knight   - Knight
                          Revenant      - Bishop
                          Chaingunner   - Rook
                          Baron of Hell - Queen
                          SkullKey      - White King
                          Blue Armor    - Black King
                          Cacodemon     - Bobby Fischer Pawn
                          Archvile      - Bobby Fischer King

                          I considered the idea of making the Archvile 
                          represent the Queen on the Chessboard, but seeing 
                          how two of these Archies would fuck up the 
                          difficulty curve, that and having to hear Mike 
                          curse my name from several states away, I settled 
                          for Barons as Queens... EDIT: Actually that was 
                          an old paragraph entry... The newly added Bobby 
                          Fischer secret now has Archies on the board, not 
                          too hard to beat with adequate cover if you ask 
                          me.

                          The Chessboard at the northernmost area of the
                          level containing the blue key, carries the Chess
                          Opening Sicilian Dragon: Yugoslav Attack. A razor
                          sharp yet dynamically balanced line of the 
                          Sicilian Defense that encourages agressive play 
                          on both sides. The Sicilian has always been my 
                          black response to the Kingside opening, and the 
                          Yugoslav attack has always been my favorite line 
                          in Chess... Karpov-Korchnoi 1974.

                          The formation on the Go Board was an actual game
                          of Go played by Brent Cleary (a non-Doomer friend
                          of mine) versus myself. We agreed not to put our
                          stones on the edge of the board because it would
                          affect Doom's gameplay negatively. After a couple 
                          of moves, we stopped and tested our Go game
                          formation in the ZDoom engine... He was the Bull
                          Demon, I was the imp...

                          The layout of the level was modeled after a
                          biological cell, with the phospholipid bilayer
                          being the the double-rock barrier. Notice the
                          cytoplasm swirling around the cell!


Map12                          
Level Name              : Minas Morgul
Author                  : Huy Pham
Editor Used             : Doom Builder 1.68, Deepsea 11.82, XWE
Finished                : February 2008

Inspiration             : The Lord of the Rings (Movie)
                          AV Map18 - Toxic Touch
                          AV Map29 - Fire Walk with Me
                          AV Map31 - Killer Colours
                          Grove.wad
                          Alhambra Granada
                          Dome of the Rock

Description             : The greenish shroud of death and decay emanates
                          from a lair nestled deep within the valleys of
                          Morgul. Go and shut down this source of poison.

Author's Comment        : The latest DVII map before the First Edition 
                          release.

                          The Minas Morgul scene from the Return of the
                          is one of the most awesome scene from the Lord
                          of the Rings--or in any movie for that matters.

                          With its ethereal green glow and sharp, sinister
                          corrupted Numenorean architecture, I knew since 
                          Christmas of 2003 that Minas Morgul had to be 
                          translated into a Doom mod.

                          I'm satisfied with the faithfulness of the
                          entrance of Minas Morgul is to its movie 
                          counterpart. The secret stairways is somewhat
                          implied with the green crystal cave leading up to
                          the BFG. 
                          
                          The interior of Minas Morgul was never
                          explicitly shown in the movie, it was only
                          through the Return of the King scene with the 
                          Witch King donning his battle helmet were some 
                          interior features of the evil fortress revealed. 
                          In that brief scene, I saw some torches and metal 
                          barricades. Piecing together a glimpse from ROTK 
                          and the overall mordor architecture, I was able to
                          improvise an interior of Minas Morgul to fit its 
                          exterior.

                          As DVII's first real slaughtermap, The gameplay is 
                          inspired by Andy Johnsen's AV Map18, with the huge
                          firefights coupled with a large excess of health 
                          and ammo, giving the player enough resources to
                          play agressively through this level.

                          With the green theme comes the BFG, but since
                          this level is early in the megawad, I didn't want
                          to murder the player with ultra-tough challenges.
                          Instead, they'll be treated to several fights
                          in which hordes of weaker enemies get dominated 
                          by splash damage weapons.

Tester Input [Mike]     : This map is pretty much an intermission. It looks
			  as though it could be one hell of a slaughter fest,
			  but it isn't. Huy resisted. :P

			  This map is fairly simple and short. It shows that
			  800 monsters can be dealt with in a very short 
			  amount of time.

			  The only part to watch out for is the start. You
			  MUST get that SSG before the specrtres overrun you.

			  Most players should be able to handle this map
			  with relative ease.

Fun Facts               : MSN Messenger transcript between Mike and Belial. 
                          2008-02-16:
                          
                          [19:54] Belial: is it just me or does map12s 
                                          gameplay seem really rushed and 
                                          subpar in quality :P
                          [19:55] Mike: it's pretty much set up the the way 
                                        he wants it
                          [19:55] Mike: so I dunno
                          [19:55] Mike: I don't think it needs a huge fight

                          [19:55] Belial: the hk horde at the exit seemed 
                                          kind of ridiculous to me
                          [19:56] Mike: I plow in, get the invuln, and just 
                                        kill 'em all
                          
                          [19:57] Mike: but yeah i get that rushed feeling 
                                        as well
                          [19:57] Mike: I like the map though

                          [19:57] Belial: still feels weird, i wouldve 
                                          expected stuff to pop in around 
                                          the central room, like maybe cybers
                                          or archies in the cages with some
                                          support
                          [19:58] Mike: I was thinking maybe he could at 
                                        least make an extra fight as a secret
                  

Map13
Level Name              : Eagle's Nest
Author                  : Huy Pham
Editor Used             : Doom Builder 1.68, Deepsea 11.82, XWE
Finished                : Summer 2004

Inspiration             : Jurassic Park 2's High Ptera
                          Contra's Jungle & Waterfall Level 
                          AV Map20 - Mishri Halek
                          AV Map23 - Blood Sacrifice
                          HR Map26 - The Afterlife 
                          Action DooM Map02

Description             : A trail up a mountainside with castle on top.
                          Beware of hell-possessed wildlife that awaits
                          you eagerly along the way!

Author's Comment        : My second creation in the DVII series.
                          
                          I like climbing great heights in the Cascade 
                          Range of the Pacific Northwest, and wanted to 
                          express it in this map, I would've had forests
                          made of tree sprites covering the surrounding 
                          backdrop, but this idea would sink framerates 
                          to unplayable. 

                          Vegetation is influenced by
                          Scuba Steve's Action DooM Map02, which had a
                          pretty awesome Contra retro feel to it. Actually,
                          the first open area of AD Map02 was the inspiration
                          for this map's sheer cliffs as well.

                          The green halo for the map was pretty much a spur
                          of the moment invention, which links the mountain
                          section with a ghoulish hall of the dead...

                          The map is geared towards tight-quarter, conserve
                          ammo gameplay, but prepare for a slight 
                          slaughterfest upon entering the green halo. There
                          are also two huge, completely optional secret
                          fights if you want HR-styled slugfests. You could
                          pretty much finish the level without killing even
                          half the monsters present.

                          I thought this map was loads of fun for 
                          cooperative, and teaches a lesson or two about 
                          itchy trigger fingers!

                          And thanks to Richie and Mike, who supplied me
                          with countless demos of Eagle's Nest that helped
                          with the gameplay tweaks.

Tester Input [Mike]     : Climbing a mountain. Honestly I didn't think 
                          something like this was feasible with Doom's 
                          limitations. It's fun to scale this mountain, 
                          but if you fall it can be a little frustrating.
		
			  If you make it to the top before you fall off, 
                          theres an elevator at the bottom to make the trip
                          less aggravating. But be warned, in cooperative, 
                          there is an archvile on the loose. If he catches 
                          you while your on that lift, theres no running. 
                          Nothing to fear in the singleplayer though. Those
                          revenant fireballs are nowhere near fast enough 
                          to catch you on that lift.

			  For me the biggest pain in this level was that 
                          pesky cyberdemon in the tower. If your sneaky 
                          though, you can manage to get the barons in front
                          of him to waste most of his health away, (I once
			  managed to get them to kill it!) then just pick 
                          him off with the single barrel shotgun at a safe 
                          distance.

			  Other than that, this map is pretty easy and 
                          linear. Most mistakes are forgiven here. 
   			
			  However if you have more bloodlust, there are
			  two secrets to satisfy you: The Hell Knight
			  siege on the cliff side, and the (literally)
			  copied and pasted.. well.. thats all I'll say
			  for now.			

Fun Facts               : This map was supposed to be scrapped, but with 
                          Derek Braun's and Mike's insistence, it stays.
			  Mike: This map is great, so go die in a fire huy!

                          An area from the original DV is stashed away
                          somewhere deep within the level... It's really
                          obnoxious once you find it... heheheh.


Map19
Level Name              : Stargate
Author                  : Huy Pham
Editor Used             : Doom Builder 1.68, Deepsea 11.82, XWE
Finished                : Summer 2006

Inspiration             : Vrack3.wad
                          Scythe Map19 - AD
                          Equinox Map04
                          Equinox Map09
                          Stargate (Movie)

Description             : A complex space station with an 
                          Egyptian Stargate.                          

Author's Comment        : My third creation in the DVII series.
                          
                          This map is probably my greatest effort in
                          DVII in terms of time spent mapping and modifying 
                          textures. Not sure whether DV or Stargate took 
                          more of my time, probably the first option. 
                          I'm 99% satisfied with how this map turned out.

                          The starting point was derived from Vrack2. 
                          
                          Some architectural motifs such as the Medikit 
                          alcoves in the green zone, or lift system, were 
                          taken from Scythe Map19 (or just the tech of 
                          Scythe's E2 in general). 
                          
                          Many of the decorations like the DVII logo, was 
                          derived from Vrack3, same goes for the the highly
                          partitioned yet densely connected layout of this 
                          map.

                          To help the player navigate the level, color 
                          coding and distinct sector names were 
                          incorporated into the map. Also added were several 
                          landmarks to orient the player. Still no guarantee
                          that you won't get lost though!

                          Stargate's layout is nonlinear, but the gameplay
                          pathways are fairly straightforward. Co-op is 
                          an adventure here, especially near the end 
                          when all hell breaks loose!

Tester Input [Mike]     : This map is more or less the Vrack4 that wasn't.
			  The detail is simply top notch.
			  
			  Fairly linear and straight forward.

			  When dealing with that cyberdemon by the red 
                          section, I like to get those barons to do my 
                          dirty work. If you can maniplate them right, you 
                          can get the cyberdemon cornered, and, well, 
                          gang raped.

			  Other than that there really isn't much else to
			  say about this map. It's fantastic.
			  
Fun Facts               : Fredrik Johansson, creator of Vrack3 approved 
                          of my efforts, and remarked that [stargate] looks 
                          like what he would have done had he constructed 
                          Vrack4.

                          The blue biological tanks pays homage to Equinox
                          Map04's ending bio laboratory.

                          The yellow swirly laser installation pays homage
                          to the seven-star Burj Al Arab Hotel in Dubai,
                          United Arab Emirates. I wanna stay there someday, 
                          if I could afford it!


Map20
Level Name              : Desert Temple
Author                  : Huy Pham
Editor Used             : Doom Builder 1.68, Deepsea 11.82, XWE
Finished                : December 2007

Inspiration             : AV Map05 - Crimson Tide
                          AV Map11 - Nemesis
                          Av Map20 - Mishri Halek
                          Scythe II Map08 - Grave Robbers
                          Chord3.wad
                          ChordG.wad
                          Doom Raider - Crypt of the Vile
                          The Acropolis of Athens
                          The Getty Center
                          Lawrence of Arabia (the movie),
                          The Mummy (the movie)

Description             : An Egyptian Temple on a desert plateau.

Author's Comment        : My sixth creation in the DVII series.

                          My answer to all three of the mentioned AV maps 
                          rolled into one level... with Chord gameplay!

                          The layout of Desert Temple takes after AV Map05,
                          with the atrium, upper balcony, and various rooms
                          laid out in similar manner to said map.

                          The mountain climb, Egyptian theme, and manner of 
                          lighting, was inspired by Av Map20, the greatest
                          Egyptian map ever made, 'nuff said.

                          The presentation of Desert Temple (starting area,
                          clifface climb, temple at the top) was inspired
                          by AV Map11.

                          I thought the Stargate level needed a definite
                          follow-up, so I made this map.

                          Malcolm Sailor's Chord series had a huge 
                          influence on this map's gameplay. I wanted
                          the player to count their bullets in this round.
                          A slight departure from the rest of DVII that 
                          encourages Rambo-styled firefights.

Tester Input [Mike]     : This map focuses on tight gameplay. The intention
			  of the author is to play from a pistol start, as
			  you are given just enough ammo to get by, 
                          although it isn't as unfair as chord at times.
			
			  ..The only problem is that coming from map19
			  will make this map a sinch, since you'll have
			  plenty of ammo..

			  When you reach the temple, you have to decide
			  what you value more: Bullets, or shells.
			  If the latter, open the mancubus secret. You'll
			  exhaust pretty much all your ammo, but you'll 
			  have more shells in the end.

			  The tomb with the Imps and Hell Knights..
			  I have no desire to go down there. Only doing
			  a UV-MAX would get me to.  Maybe in ZDoom, where
			  melee is just plain easy to do.. but in Boom,
			  not a chance in hell.

			  Converve ammo whenever possible, and only grab
			  that coffin medkit if you're feeling brave.

			  As awesome as this map plays, I didn't find it
			  much of an answer to AV Map05. Not only does
			  it play completely different, I can't find any
			  resemeblemce. I don't stop and think about AV
			  even once when playing this map.

Fun Facts               : The map was constructed and completed in less
                          than fourty hours.

                          The drawing of a man and woman dancing is only
                          half mine, the other half is co-drawn by a
                          friend.

                          The boat behind the entry stargate pays homage
                          to Equinox Map01's semi-hidden entrypoint.

                          The two barons of hell near the end pays homage 
                          the two barons of hell near the start of ChordG!

                          There is an unofficial secret with
                          a dirty message somewhere within the level...


Map21
Level Name              : The Unholy Cathedral
Author                  : Huy Pham
Editor Used             : Doom Builder 1.68, Deepsea 11.82, XWE
Finished                : Summer 2007

Inspiration             : The Paris Cathedral (Notre Dame) 
                          AV Map29 - Fire Walk with Me
                          Chord3.wad
                          HR Map28 - Top Hell
                          Scythe2 Map27 - The Afterlife II
                          The Suzzallo Library of UW-Seattle

Description             : A demonic cathedral embedded into the clifface of 
                          Hell. Dark, with gloomy red flames and monumental
                          altars. Guarded by hordes of demons in their 
                          elements.

                          Blacken Nine of Sixteen Red Pentagrams on the 
                          floor to access the main pipe organ, and prepare 
                          for one hell of a fight.

Author's Comment        : My fourth creation in the DVII series. 

                          After the completion of the first cathedral in 
                          the original Deus Vult, I thought about 
                          the creation of an even more complex cathedral.
                          
                          Before I began construction, I went on vacation
                          in France and toured the Notre Dame Cathedral 
                          during Summer 2005, and was able to obtain a 
                          tour guide's blueprint of the cathedral itself. 

                          Summer 2006, after completing Map13 
                          (Stargate) I immediately went to work on DVII's
                          Cathedral. Custom sprites and textures were made 
                          specifically for this map, including candles and 
                          flamewalls. I looked at architecture books and 
                          found church stuff that aided my design. 
                          Construction included architectural 
                          features that you would typically see in a real 
                          church, including aisles, apses, nave, ambulatory, 
                          chapels, cloister, and crypts.

                          The map layout is geared towards nonlinear 
                          gameplay, with multiple entries, connections, and
                          optional routes. The architecture of the level 
                          allows for mixture of tight-quarters as well
                          as open combat. You can pretty much create your
                          own route here, making for some really creative
                          firefights. You could choose roughly three 
                          gameplay paths from the beginning and branch out
                          from there:

                          Easy Path: Easy compared to the other two paths.
                                     Grab the shotty, go up, and meet 
                                     increasingly difficult lineups of 
                                     monsters.

                          Tough Path: Made to play like Malcolm Sailor's 
                                      Chord series, the library will 
                                      introduce close quarter fights with 
                                      tight health and ammo provisions. 
                                      Don't worry about finding the enemy;
                                      they're hunting you.

                          Slaughter Path: Remember the Revenant Curve? 
                                          Introducing The Mancubus Curve. 
                                          Good luck!

                          There are plenty of shortcuts here; even the main
                          lobby fight can be accessed right away and can be
                          avoidable if you know what to do. The ways that
                          this map can be played is very much open to the
                          player's decision.

                          Despite not being a slaughtermap 
                          (for the most part), the Unholy Cathedral carries 
                          some psychotically heavy resistance near the end, 
                          notably the main altar fight and the fishmouth. 
                          Hope you enjoy those fights as much as I enjoyed 
                          making them!

Tester Input [Mike]     : More complex and demanding of your hardware than
			  even map05 of the original Deus Vult. Thank god
			  I got a new PC last year.
			  
			  You can take pretty much any route as you like,
			  so long as you touch nine of the sixteen 
			  pentagrams. 

			  I prefer the easy path. Grab the shotgun, (and
			  rocket launcher if your sneaky enough) and by the
			  end of that route you'll have plenty of 
                          provisions take on the library with little 
                          trouble.

			  Only two of three keys are requird, and only one
			  of which you get a say in. Grabbing the yellow 
                          key means you get to deal with a mancubus curve, 
                          and potentially the tower of babel.
			  
			  After touching six pentagrams, the snake mouth 
			  will open. A fairly easy and straight forward 
                          fight, but don't fuck around with those 
                          balrogs. They will cut through 200/200 like 
                          a laser-cut knife through hot butter. Once the
			  fight is over, the blue key appears.

			  The main hallway fight is really intense. It all
			  comes down to grabbing the invulns at the right 
                          time. This fight eats DVmap03 alive.

			  If you go through the trouble of touching all
			  sixteen pentagrams, you'll find a nice treat
			  at the end.

Fun Facts               : At 51 thousand sidedefs, this map is more complex
                          than Map05 of the original DV.

                          The School of Athens painting was chosen as the
                          player's entrance to this Unholy Cathedral,
                          representing the philosophers' inquiry into evil.

                          Jacques-Louis David's Oath of Horatii painting 
                          was chosen for the Shotgun chapel, as the morally
                          complex story behind the Horatii is fit for the
                          oasis of ambiguous good in the (mostly evil) 
                          Unholy Cathedral.

                          The Archvile placement on the first floor of the
                          East Library was inspired by the Archvile
                          placement near the starting area of Chord3.

                          DISCLAIMER: The crosses that are not upside down 
                          has nothing to do with Christianity; they're 
                          crucifixes of Hell. Don't send fundamentalist hate
                          mail in my direction because of this, thank you.

                          The crosses that are upside-down reinforces the
                          unholy theme of the Cathedral. Once again, avoid
                          the urge to send me hate mail, thanks.

                          The highest point reachable (when jumping is
                          disabled) in the cathedral is not the Tower of 
                          Babel, rather, it is the secret pentagram in the 
                          Machiavelli Library.

                          Layout: The Olympic Torch, need I say more?

                          Despite being red and hellish. There is no fluid
                          lava in this level... you can check everywhere,
                          this map is dry as a bone!


Map22                          
Level Name              : You shall Not Pass!
Author                  : Huy Pham
Editor Used             : Doom Builder 1.68, Deepsea 11.82, XWE
Finished                : January 2008

Inspiration             : Scythe Map28 - Run From It
                          1Monster Map24 - The One God
                          Doom2 Map29 - The Living End 
                          HR Map24 - Post Mortem
                          HR2 Map29 - Hell's Cauldron
                          The Lord of the Rings (Movie)

Description             : You have plunged into the hallowed depths of the
                          Mines of Khazad Doom and awakened the ancient
                          evil only known as The Balrogs. Evil has
                          awakened... Run...

Author's Comment        : A long speedrunning map.
                          Difficulty on UV is murder, 
                          and you have Mike to thank for this.

                          My cousin attempted mapping back in 2004 and one 
                          of his first maps involved replicating the Balrog 
                          chase from the Fellowship of the Ring. I wasn't
                          impressed by the quality of the map, as it was a
                          bunch of steep angled staircases with hundreds of
                          imps. Nonetheless, I saw potential in this idea
                          of a Balrog chase, so I made DVII Map22.

                          The Balrog chase from the Fellowship of the Ring
                          is among the most jawdropping scene from that 
                          movie. First it was buildup of this unworldly,
                          demonic light emanating from one end of Moria,
                          then it was the trek across deteriorating 
                          staircases and platforms while dodging orcish
                          attacks, then it was the Balrogs rising out of the
                          flames and challenging Gandalf... You shall not
                          pass! It's time Balrog Chase gets translated into 
                          Doom.
                          
                          DVII Map22 is a speedrunning map along the lines 
                          of Erik Alm's Scythe Map28 and Ichor's 1Monster 
                          Map24. As much as I like speedrunning, those maps 
                          have a strict time limit that result in the 
                          player being killed after a set amount of time has
                          elapsed, which restricts the gameplay option for
                          the player. I also didn't like the idea of being 
                          killed by some invisible force, one second you're 
                          fine, the next some invisible crusher squashes 
                          you without given warning; it would have been nice 
                          to see some sign that you're about to die. 

                          In DVII Map22, the signal that the player is 
                          running out of time and about to die is expressed 
                          by hordes of Balrogs hurling fireballs. The 
                          Balrogs acts as a dynamic death timer, zeroing
                          in on the player's position and forcing him to
                          progress or die.

                          This Balrog "timer" is dynamic in the sense that
                          if you dodge well or smart enough to lure
                          the Balrog away from your intended path, you can
                          buy yourself extra time in the chase.

                          In co-op, the team can buy extra time by having 
                          one player stay back and distract the Balrogs, 
                          while the point person progress with less time 
                          pressure, thereby incurring less mishaps.

                          In terms of fight choreography, this map feature
                          some of the sharpest, tightest fight in DVII. On
                          UV, the megasphere area with the bull demons and
                          archies is a good demonstration of dynamic 
                          pressure working against you in a fight, with
                          the bull demons forcing the player to take cover
                          inside the cave (since being outside and exposed to
                          the Balrogs is not a good idea), the player sees
                          a powerup and out comes two archviles, putting
                          another wave of pressure on the player, all of
                          awhile the Balrogs slowly moves in... and I didn't
                          even have to resort to hordes of revenants this 
                          time around :)

                          The problem with most large underground hell maps, 
                          including the original DV Map02, is that the large 
                          surface area of the maps makes the ceiling, even
                          very high ceilings, appear flat and 
                          warehouse-like. That architectural problem is
                          solved in this map by throwing in silhouettes of 
                          gothic-like definition of the ceiling. The cave 
                          surfaces are represented by a bunch of decrepit 
                          rock formation that seems broken in... The sheets 
                          of fingered rocks defined the extent of the 
                          ceiling's height, while the darkness above 
                          suggests that the ceiling continues to rise into 
                          infinity. I took my favorite element of DV Map02, 
                          the cavern ascention to the BFG, and made it into 
                          a whole level, as seen here.

                          You will have the opportunity to use Sauron's
                          Gauntlet in this map, and this is where this new
                          weapon really shines... In fact, it's probably
                          a lifesaver in a few fights. Have fun!

Tester Input [Mike]     : As far as underground hell-holes go, this is the
			  best looking one I've ever seen. Though I find 
                          that the starting area is kind of bland. Sure, you 
                          see it for a very small amount of time, but thats 
                          besides the point. If there was a huge fight with 
                          imps and pinky demons coming out of the columns, 
                          it would be nice. 
			
			  The premise of this map is that you have 24 
                          Balrogs chasing you down, and you must navigate 
                          this hellish cavern to escape their wrath.
			
			  First time players have no chance of survival, and
			  I don't think casual doomers will have the will
			  to keep trying. This map just doesn't target those
			  kind of players.

			  What makes this map either challenging or downright
			  punishing comes down to your decision between speed
			  or killing everything. Many of the enemies can be
			  skipped.

			  The only real option for speed running is to 
                          avoid as many monsters as you can. The only ones 
                          I highly recommend you don't skip are the two 
                          archviles guarding the box of rockets. Those guys
                          will chase your ass down.

			  If you have atleast 150 health, another viable 
                          option is to ignore the megasphere, and plow 
                          through the pinky demons with your plasma rifle. 
                          The trade off is that you don't need the rockets,
                          therefore you can save time by not dealing with 
                          three mancubuses.

			  All in all, this is a good map, but it has limited 
                          replay-ability. I may produce a speed demo down the
		    	  road, but a UV-Max just won't happen from the likes
			  of me.	

			  It took anima over 200 tries to produce a demo 
                          that he was satisified with. It took me less than
                          50 tries before I.. well.. check out the fun 
                          facts. :)

			  But seriously, before I asked for the difficulty 
                          to be increased, this map was just plain too 
                          fucking easy. I'm happier that it's brutal and 
                          devasting, and not a tame tiger. So yes, those 
                          twenty-eight more monsters ARE necessary, Huy.

Fun Facts               : Many parts of this level, including the starting
                          pillared hallway, were created while looking at
                          screen captures from the Fellowship of the Ring
                          Extended DVD edition.

                          "uhg fuck this, I don't care anymore. this map is
                          FUCKING STUPID, and I'm not trying anymore. YES, 
                          I give up, FUCK THIS SHIT" omg your rude Mike,
                          who was the one that requested twenty-eight more
                          monsters than was necessary? I rest my case.

                          Map22 is also known as The DVII Exam, it's going 
                          to test your Dooming skills to its limit...
			  Mike: Not to mention your sanity.
                          

Map23                          
Level Name              : Hell's Vendetta
Author                  : Huy Pham
Editor Used             : Doom Builder 1.68, Deepsea 11.82, XWE
Finished                : December 2007

Inspiration             : HR Map18 - Hard Attack
                          HR Map28 - Top Hell
                          HR2 Map32 - Playground
                          Scythe Map26 - Fear
                          AV Map32 - No Guts, No Glory
                          St. Peter's Basilica
                          St. Paul's Cathedral

Description             : A basilica filled with baddies. Pack your BFG.

Author's Comment        : My fifth creation in the DVII series.

                          One day, Mike whined, bitched, and moaned that
                          DVII doesn't have a real "slaughtermap" like
                          the original DV, so I shutted him up with this 
                          megaslaughter arena.

                          With over 2700 monsters on UV packed into an area
                          one-third the size of the original DV, this map 
                          is borderline Nuts.

                          Despite the monster count, Hell's Vendetta
                          isn't a joke, it's serious business. The map is 
                          balanced through rigorous testing, stuff removed, 
                          stuff added, playtest, playtest, playtest. Because 
                          of DVII's gametesters' hard-on for this map, ahem,
                          Belial, the playtesting put into this map is
                          excellent. As a result, the map appears 
                          overwhelmingly difficult at first, but with keen 
                          attention, you can exploit the more subtle 
                          weaknesses in the enemy lineup to perform some 
                          incredible runs with massive carnage.

                          The layout is oversized and simplistic to direct
                          mass amounts of monsters at the player, no matter
                          where they are on the map. Can't run, can't hide.

                          The biggest drawback to most slaughtermaps is
                          that once intensity of the fight peaks, mopping
                          up is a real chore. Hell's Vendetta is no 
                          exception, but I tried to minimize mopping by 
                          having most of the enemies mobile so they can seek
                          you out, making it faster to UV-Max.

                          If you are gutsy enough, you can perform a "circle
                          around the world" run that wakes up a significant
                          amount of monsters from all wings and have them
                          tear each other apart. It's difficult but can be
                          done, and once you complete the circle, you can 
                          be pretty creative with the routes from there on
                          out.

                          A last note to point out in this level is that on
                          skill 3 or above, if you played too defensively 
                          and tried to ward off the main arena's monsters 
                          using all 400 rockets from the red key area 
                          (East Cleric wing) before triggering the Cleric
                          army issuing from the Red Morgul, it will render 
                          the fight against that Cleric army impossible, and 
                          the only way you can exit the level under this
                          circumstance is the death exit sector in the lava 
                          lake... try setting up this scenario yourself if 
                          you think I'm wrong. This odd scenario has 
                          happened before with one of the later testers 
                          (after Hell Vendetta's been finalized), so I need 
                          to address it. 
                          
Tester Input [Mike]     : Big (or at least wide open) and the hallways are 
			  all symmetrical. The three fights for getting the
			  keys are pretty interesting though. I love the 
			  cyberdemon corridor fight, and the use of clerics
			  in this map.

			  Somewhat non-linear. You can go anyway you wish, 
			  just don't provoke more than you can swallow.
			  
			  Heh, I only mentioned once that there wasn't a
	  		  slaughter map once.. I'd say roughly 12 hours 
			  later is when Huy sent me the next build with a 
			  layout of the map set down.
		
			  This guy does more actions per minute in 
			  Doom Builder than most people do in Starcraft.
			
Fun Facts               : Hell's Vendetta was created and finished in less 
                          than twenty-four hours over the period of five 
                          days.

                          More time and effort was spent playtesting this
                          level than constructing it.

                          The western cyberdemon wing with the yellow key 
                          was designed so it somewhat resembles a Starcraft 
                          Scourge on the automap.

                          The central exit structure pays tribute to the 
                          Baldacchino of St. Peter's Basilica, belonging to
                          the works of my favorite architect,
                          Gianlorenzo Bernini.

                          In case you haven't figured out the theme behind
                          each of the wings' grouping of mural villains...

                          Six O'clock Left     - Starcraft
                          Six O'clock Right    - First Person Shooters
                          Nine O'clock Lower   - Star Wars Sith Lords
                          Nine O'clock Upper   - Star Wars Miscellany
                          Twelve O'clock Left  - Nintendo / Rareware
                          Twelve O'Clock Right - Nintendo
                          Three O'Clock Upper  - Tolkien Mythology
                          Three O'Clock Under  - Lord of the Rings 
                          Central Area         - Warcraft III

                          My favorite megawads include Hell Revealed and 
                          Alien Vendetta, um, you figure it out :)


Map31                          
Level Name              : The Manliest Fight EVER
Author                  : Huy Pham
Editor Used             : Doom Builder 1.68, Deepsea 11.82, XWE
Finished                : February 20th, 2008

Inspiration             : HR Map19 - Everything Dies
                          AV Map07 - Stronghold
                          HR2 Map32 - Playground

Description             : The combined forces of Bruce Lee, Chuck Norris,
                          Che Guevara, and even Crambo are challenging you
                          to a fight... get ready for the manliest brawl
                          yet!

Author's Comment        : A speedmapping job. Created, tested, and finished 
                          in six hours during one day.

                          The level's theme is all about manliness, why
                          with the pillbox-like buildings, rock walls,
                          #MS NIGHTMARE, and four of the toughest dudes
                          evAR. You start off in What appears to be 
                          gladiatorial arena that eventually opens up to a 
                          beachfront complete with the #MS NIGHTMARE cargo 
                          ship floating in the distance.

                          The level architecture, when viewed from the 
                          beachfront, looks like a Normandy-beach styled 
                          bunker, which just makes the level's manly theme
                          all the manlier.                          

                          Like HR Map19, the physical level doesn't have
                          any provisions, and you're given all the health
                          and ammunition at the start, play wisely!

                          It's hard, you'll die. You might succeed... iono.

                          Cooperative mode in this level is a complete 
                          success, I'd even go as far to say that this is
                          one of the best co-op maps in DVII, and that's
                          saying A LOT!

Tester Input [Mike]     : What we have here is pretty standard slaughter
			  map, with 4 badasses in it. It plays fairly well,
			  and if you know how to get the invuln it will 
			  be fun.

			  As far as creativity goes, there is only the
			  process by which you get the invuln (pressing 4
			  switches) and the fact that you start the map
			  fully loaded on ammo and health, but there isn't
			  a scrap laying around on the map.

			  The best way to play this is with a friend,
			  as the symmetrical nature of this map beckons
			  for it (much like map23).

Fun Facts               : I created this map while waiting for Mike to 
                          revise the DVII textfile. What a wait eh?



--------
[8] BUGS
--------                   

All Maps from DVII have been tested in ZDoom 2.2.0 with virtually zero bugs, 
so if you are a non-demo recorder, ZDoom 2.2.0 is the source port for DVII,
and even if you are one... ZDoom is the port of choice for playing
DVII when you're not recording.

There was originally a laundry list of DVII bugs related to PrBoom-Plus 
2.4.8.1, but since Entryway's introduction of his latest 
PrBoom-Plus 2.4.8.3-Test, that list is effectively eliminated. PrBoom-Plus 
is now the God of Demo-Recording.


----------------------
[9] AUTHOR INFORMATION
----------------------

    9.1  Self-Input
    9.2  Favorite Games
    9.3  Random Thoughts on Mapping

Some stuff about me that's more or less irrelevant to DVII, but should be 
written down for all the hardcore Doom geeks who are still reading this 
textfile ;)


[9.1 Self Input]
----------------

Doomworld Account   : Doom Marine
NewDoom Account     : Doom Marine
ZDoom.org Account   : Doom Marine
FreeChess Account   : Tetranode
Mod DB Account      : Tetranode
Wikipedia Account   : Tetranode
AIM Account         : BusyBeaverHP
ICQ Account         : BusyBeaverHP, ICQ# 482557955
GMail/GTalk Account : BusyBeaverHP@Gmail.com
Contact Email       : BusyBeaverHP@Gmail.com

Roughly 1800 hours of my life have been poured into this project. I don't
think I have a soul anymore...

True when written in Winter 2008, some stuff about me:

Activities        : School, Skiing, Snowboarding, Singing

Interests         : Family, friends, kendo, architecture, chess, computers,
(outside of Doom)   mathematics, drawing, music, engineering, physics,
                    the humanities, meteorology, astronomy, anthropology,
                    biology, neuroscience, genetics, snowboarding, skiing,
                    volunteering...

Favorite Music    : If the song is good, I'll listen! ... Actually, I'll
                    listen anyways! ... No wait, as long as it doesn't hurt
                    my ears!

                    Bocelli, Brightman, Groban... classical music!

Favorite TV Shows : I don't watch TV anymore, lame huh?

                    ... But I do like South Park, The Chappelle Show, Jon
                    Stewart, National Geographic, the Discovery Channel,
                    PBS, and the Science Channel

Favorite Movies   : A Beautiful Mind, Austin Powers, Crash, Gladiator, 
                    Goldeneye 007, Idiocracy, My Big Fat Greek Wedding,
                    Starship Troopers, Surf Ninjas, Y Tu Mama Tambien,
                    Adam Sandler movies, and those awesome Star Wars and 
                    Lord of the Rings trilogies

Favorite Books    : CARD - Ender's Game
                    FISCHER - Bobby Fischer Teaches Chess
                    GOLEMAN - Social Intelligence
                    KIDDER - Mountains Beyond Mountains
                    KRISHNAMURTI - Think on these Things
                    LAO-TZU - Tao Te Ching
                    LEE - Tao of Jeet Kune Do
                    MUSASHI - The Book of Five Rings
                    ROBBINS - The Overachievers
                    SEIRAWAN - Winning Chess Brilliances
                    SEIRAWAN - Winning Chess Endings
                    SEIRAWAN - Winning Chess Tactics
                    TOLKIEN - The Lord of the Rings
                    TOLKIEN - The Silmarillion

Favorite Quotes   : "Courage is the mastery of fear, not the absence of 
                     fear." - Mark Twain

                    "Intelligence is sexier than a miniskirt." - Josh Oakley

                    "Don't anticipate. Be cool." - Rod Nobuto Omoto

                    "How far that little candle throws its beams! So shines 
                     a good deed in a naughty world." - William Shakespeare

                    "Some people see things as they are and say why. I dream
                     things that never were and say why not?" - RFK

                    "Far better is it to dare mighty things, to win glorious
                     triumphs, even though checkered by failure... than to 
                     rank with those poor spirits who neither enjoy nor 
                     suffer much, because they live in a gray twilight that
                     knows not victory nor defeat." - Theodore Roosevelt

                    "Every act of conscious learning requires the 
                     willingness to suffer an injury to ones self-esteem. 
                     That is why young children, before they are aware of 
                     their own self-importance, learn so easily; and why 
                     older persons, especially if vain or important, cannot
                     learn at all." - Thomas Szasz

                    "You probably wouldn't worry about what people think of
                     you if you could know how seldom they do." 
                     - Olin Miller

                    "Speak properly, and in as few words as you can, but 
                     always plainly; for the end of speech is not 
                     ostentation, but to be understood." - William Penn

                    "Simplicity is the ultimate sophistication." 
                     - Leonardo Da Vinci

WORK INFO         

Employer          : WebbSki
Position          : Snowboarding Instructor
Time Period       : February 2007 - Present

Employer          : Amgen
Position          : Amgen Scholar, Pharmaceutical Chemist Jr.
Time Period       : June 2007 - August 2007
Description       : Multi-Drug Resistance (MDR), Cellular Efflux, 
                    Blood-Brain Barrier, Genetics, Enaminone 
                    Anticonvulsants...

Employer          : Tukwila Elementary / Cascade View Elementary
Position          : Chess, 3rd Grade, & Math Tutor
Time Period       : February 2002 - June 2003

Employer          : King County Parks Recreation
Position          : Lifeguard
Time Period       : June 2001 - January 2003

- UW-Seattle student to apply for Neurobiology in Autumn '08
- Pre-Medical academic track
- Amgen Biotechnology Scholar, Summer 2007
- Snowboarding Instructor
- Inactive Chess Player [USCF provisional = 1860]
- Blood Donor
- Choir Tenor

As of Winter '08, I live on the UW campus, attend classes during weekday,
work during the weekend up in Snoqualmie Pass teaching 'lil kids
snowboarding.

FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (BASED ON HACKER ETHIC)
IN THE CONTEXT OF DOOM

I believe that access to anything (i.e. tools and information) that furthers 
the intellectual development of the individual should be completely 
unrestricted. Furthermore, I believe that unlimited access to such things can
free the individual's intellectual abilities from many socio-economic 
constraints; a talented programmer in India can explore his/her potential
just as well as any programmer in the Western world, provided the resources
that Freedom of Information brings.

Freedom of information in the context of Doom Modification, it is a virtue 
to be generous with your work and their resources. If you created something 
like a texture or map, allow it to be used in future projects. Try not to go
around and limit others from using what you've made, after your work is done,
leave it be, move on, don't clutch onto your work and render it dead with
copyrights and self-important permission to do this and that, don't make it 
hard on others because of ego; let it grow by giving it away so others can 
develop it... after all, John Carmack was generous enough to give away 
Doom's source code, from which we are able to evolve Doom as a nonprofit 
community through many sourceports and projects that kept Doom fresh through 
the test of time and made it all the more beautiful in the end.


[9.2 Favorite Games]
--------------------

...'Cause you know, DV and DVII's ideas gotta come from somewhere:

NES:
----
- Contra
- Duck Hunt
- Jackal
- Legend of Kage
- Life Force
- Super Mario 3
- Wild Gunmen

A huge fan of co-op games, I got my early start from my dad, who 
played Contra and Jackal with me since I was five years old. Single
player is nice, but having a buddy to beat the game with you cranks
up the fun factor exponentially. Co-op is the gameplay foundation of DVII.

SNES:
-----
- Donkey Kong Country 1, 2, & 3
- Jurassic Park 2: The Chaos Continue
- Killer Instinct
- Kirby's Dream Course
- Super BomberMan
- Super Street Fighter II
- Super Mario World
- Super Mario World II: Yoshi's Island
- Tetris Attack

Donkey Kong Country's art direction had a huge influence on how I color 
my stuff, like having a dominant color for every area, and that probably 
carried over to DV and DVII. Props to Rareware!

N64:
----
- Banjo Kazooie 
- Conker's Bad Fur Day
- Goldeneye 007
- Legend of Zelda 64: Ocarina of Time
- Mario Kart 64
- Mario Party 3
- Perfect Dark
- Starfox 64
- Super Mario 64
- Super Smash Bros.
- Turok: Dinosaur Hunter
- Turok II: Seeds of Evil

Banjo Kazooie's art direction is phenomenal, I couldn't get enough of that
Click Clock Wood level at the end. Rareware during the N64 era is totally
on fire!

Next to Age of Empires and Doom, I've probably played Goldeneye 
more than any other games. Got the invincibility cheat run down 
to 1:25. Oh, and racked 2003 kills on Starfox 64, top that!

WII:
----
- Mario Party 8
- Super Mario Galaxy
- Trauma Center: New Blood

Basically, the Wii is an excellent social gaming console.

X360:
-----
- Halo 3

I highly respect the Halo series for its implementation of co-op.

PC:
---
- Age of Empires
- Age of Empires II
- Chessmaster 10th Edition
- Desktop Tower Defense
- Doom
- FEAR Combat (the multiplayer component of FEAR only)
- Fritz 7
- Half-Life 2
- Quake 4
- Sim City 2000 and 3000
- Starcraft
- Warcraft III
- Wolfenstein 3D

I've played Doom since '95, but only since 2003 have I played it seriously 
and started mapping.

Miscellaneous:
--------------
- Checkers
- Chess
- Guesstures
- Monopoly
- Risk

Picked up my first pawn when I was 16, won my first four rated games with 
classical tournament time control. A year after that, age 17, got awarded 
a WA state all-star medal for an undefeated season. The same year, won a 
silver medal at the Washington High School State Team Championship... 
undefeated in that tournament with a 4.5/5.0 score.

Currently inactive in Chess with a USCF provisional rating of 1860(P9).

Chess had a huge influence on my thought process, and this carried over
to creating DVII. The order and method of building an attack and defense
in Chess affected the way many of the DVII maps were laid out.

Certain concepts in Chess like balanced position, Zwischenzug, Zugzwang, 
interposition, space control, pressure, discovered attack, and forced 
combination were considered and applied when choreographing DVII fights. 

Furthermore, the chess games that I played in the past were very much
part of my thought when I constructed DVII's maps. Recalling
the Ruy Lopez, Maroczy's Bind, King's Indian, Sicilian Dragon, Queen's
Gambit Declined, and the Hedgehog Defense, I constructed Doom Maps with
Chess in mind. Many of the maps' layouts are pervaded by dynamically
balanced designs that is learned through studying dynamic balance in Chess.

Map20 of DVII is a strong example of the Chess influence, with the natural, 
non-teleport monsters traps that simply springs from the map's sneaky 
layout. The Beserk trap on the uppermost level of Map20 is a reflection of
a forced combination, with low health, the player is compelled to pick up
the stimpack, entering the trap full of imps, grabbing the beserk as a
counterattack, and then confronting the counter-counterattacking hell 
knight. In the yellow key complex, the two barons of hell were placed like 
two rooks on open files, firing down the corridor and putting pressure on 
the player's position and enducing him to make a mistake. The final archvile 
after taking the blue armor was placed in a way that parallels the black 
fianchettoed bishop in the Sicilian Dragon Yugoslav Attack opening, firing 
down the most crucial control point in the room.

The intense analytical process bred from studying and playing Chess built a 
strong foundation for Doom Mapping. Each monster is a Chess Piece waiting 
to be placed in the correct position on the mapping board. As a Chess 
player engage in deep thought before executing a complex maneuver
over the board, a Doom Mapper (should) ponder deeply about how a firefight 
will unfold in his level, as this will lead to better map layout, and
ultimately, better gameplay.

Wanna get better at choreographing Doom monster fights? Play Chess, play
lots of Chess... RIP Bobby Fischer.


[9.3 Random thoughts on mapping]
--------------------------------

+ Make sure to communicate ideas explicitly with the player,
  for example, when expressing a laboratory, make sure
  computers, lasers, and biological tanks are present. Like
  writing and other media of communication, better to show it
  than to declare it on your textfile!

+ A dominant color theme will turn an otherwise good looking map 
  beautiful.

+ The music has got to match the environment, it shows good taste
  and once again reinforces the communication of the level's theme
  to the player. Example: AV Map30: Point Dreadful.

+ If one's eyes were nuanced enough to see the subtle tone and shading of
  Fredrik's tech, one would recognize that Vrack3's art direction is genius.

+ WTF is green marble doing with redrock? They need to stop designing
  levels like that. There is no Christmas theme in hell. 
  RED or BLACK marble goes with REDROCK.

+ In Hell, you cannot run out of black and red.

+ With black textures and flats, you can get away with many mapping crimes, 
  like flat ceilings for example. If you don't believe me, check out the
  Minas Morgul map.

+ The secret to making a good hell map? Absorbing Alien Vendetta's Map29, 
  remember its lighting, monster placement, and most importantly, its shape.

+ Yes, the looks of the level do affect gameplay, because the ingame
  atmosphere is a part of gameplay... how much a part of the gameplay is the
  atmosphere? How much do you feel it should be?

+ Windows are multipliers of details.

+ Altitude, whether at the top of a mountain or under the basement of a
  tomb, is a good indicator of level progression. Use it liberally.

+ Skyboxes? No no, fully-scaled, 360-degree backgrounds are better!

+ Why would I want to go through rooms connected by a bunch of hallways? 
  I don't get it.

+ There is a difference between level progression and leading the player
  through a maze. Level progression happens when you tell a story with
  architecture, leading the player through a maze is when the story gets
  boring with nonsense... I hope you can tell a good story.

+ It's not so hard to close off the levels with four walls that has nothing
  behind them, but the mapper who has done so has missed his chance of
  showing the player a beautiful vista that reinforces the atmosphere
  of the level.

+ Easy it is to make a level difficult, but could I trick someone else into 
  playing it?

+ I don't care what anyone else thinks, the default Doom/Doom2 pistol isn't
  fun to use in the slightest bit, not even if had a different look, not
  even when it had a different sound, not in ANY fight, not under any 
  circumstance.

+ Having the player start off with the default Doom/Doom2 pistol and asking
  them to kill enemies with it... pisses me off.

+ Good traps must not only surprise the player, they must be logical
  as well. Don't just trap the player, trap him in with a tomb and a 
  skeleton to boot.

+ The best placement of the exploding barrel, ever, is located at the start
  of Ander Johnsen's AV Map02: Rusty Rage. [I'd have to agree with Mike 
  on this]

+ Enemies popping out of walls and coffins are far scarier, thus more
  effective, than teleporting peeps.

+ Cyberdemons are only scary when you don't give the player enough
  ammo and space to deal with them. Not enough space is scarier though.

+ You can beat an archvile to death with your bare fist, all the funner
  with beserk.

+ The megasphere isn't there for you to grab like supermarket grocery,
  it belongs to the monsters and they want it back. Did I mention that the 
  monsters have sharp claws and hurl fireballs?

+ Finding a secret gives me that same feeling when I find an extra coin
  in the phone booth.

+ What makes or break gameplay? Movement of the player. When the player 
  feels good moving about in his virtual environment without even fighting
  the enemies, that builds a foundation towards good gameplay. A strong 
  example of this concept in action is Super Mario 64, where the player's 
  movement feels good no matter where they are or what they're doing; Mario
  could be romping around the castle courtyard doing triple jumps and that
  in itself is already entertaining.

+ Proportions in a level is very important to player's movement and enemy
  contact. If a given space is too big, enemy contact will feel loose and
  sloppy; the baron of hell can be rendered harmless as a lampost with too
  much open spaces. If a given space is too cramped, the player's movement
  is restricted, and he will continually bump into things, making player 
  movement an exercise in frustration rather than smooth play. Like all 
  aspects of map design, moderation here is key. Good examples of level 
  proportions include John Romero's maps, Anders Johnsen's maps, Kim Malde's
  maps, Erik Alm's maps, Kama Sutra, vrack3, and even ChordG.

+ The above statement still holds true in the face of some supposedly 
  open maps, like Epic Map05, where extremely large open areas are 
  moderated by islands of fights in smaller spaces.

+ PV = nRT... where P = Pressure of Opposition                
                    V = Area of a given space
                    n = Number of monsters
                    R = Mean monster movement speed
                    T = Average area controlled per monsters

+ One of the biggest violators of player movement are 8-unit posts that
  sticks out the wall... or even eight-unit posts... Period. 
  Get rid of them; they are hurting gameplay.

+ If details get in the way of player's movement, put them on the ceiling,
  like vrack2b.

+ Spending lots of time detailing that chapel room is nice, but that won't 
  determine the optimal number of revenants to insert into that area.

+ What is dynamic space? A room, hallway, area, etc. that drastically 
  alters the general vector and elevation of the player's movement.

+ What is beautiful space? A room, hallway, area, etc. in which the player 
  feels good moving about.

+ What is beautiful dynamic space? Good map design.

+ Exhaustive playtesting is the only theoretically sound way to 
  ensure that your map is fun. Game Law.

+ A bad gametester will tell you that "your map stinks."

+ A good gametester will tell you that "your map stinks, and here's why..."

+ A good gametester will never deem your map flawless.

+ Belial's, Brian's, and Mike's bitchings are worth their weight in mapping 
  gold.

+ If your testers tell you that a particular fight isn't fun, quit being 
  defensive and remove the perpetrating monster(s).

+ If your testers tell you that a particular fight is too easy, you know
  what to do...

+ There is no fucking way I can vertically align those fucking BRIK_06J 
  textures in the fucking Suzzallo Library, Belial... JUST BE QUIET 
  ALREADY! =p

+ Listen to your gametesters, they are the canaries to your mapping
  mine shaft.



-----------
[10] CREDIT
-----------

    10.1  Acknowledgements
    10.2  Special Thanks
    10.3  List of Doomers who influenced DVII 

Like all game mods, Deus Vult II wasn't made by some gaming wizard with
a magical wave of his wand. Rather, it was hours of labor build upon the 
ideas and works of past programmers, artists, and gamers alike. There's Id 
Sofware, Pascal vd Heiden, Jack Vermeulen, creators of Adobe Photoshop, the 
Doomworld community, and even my parents... if I were to include everyone 
who directly and indirectly contributed to DVII in such a trend, the list 
would be too exhaustive to read. Instead of giving credit to 
everyone and their village, the following sections mention those whom I feel
is relevant to accredit within the context of the Dooming Community.


[10.1 Acknowledgements]
-----------------------

B.P.R.D
- creator of DVII's bio-tank textures

Csabo
- Creator of XWE

Andrey Budko
- Programmer of PrBoom+

Fredrik Johansson
- Creator of Vrack3.wad
- Creator of the level Stargate's soundtrack
- Creator of the level Stargate's wall & computer textures

Graf Zahl
- Programmer of GZDoom

Id Software
- Created Doom/Doom2

Jack Vermeulen [Deep]
- Creator of DeepSea

Kristus
- Creator of some tech textures

Nanami
- Creator of the Flying Balrog Sprite

Pascal vd Heiden [CodeImp]
- Creator of Doom Builder

Randy Heit
- Programmer of ZDoom

Simon O'Callaghan
- Creator of many Egyptian Textures found in Desert Temple


[10.2 Special Thanks]
---------------------

+ MIKE ESSLER / MIKE REINER for:
  01) Years of DVII testing
  02) Countless hours of co-op testing
  03) Archiving numerous builds of DVII
  04) Sparking creation of Hell's Vendetta
  05) Not leaking DVII betas to the public :p
  06) Being a good sport and putting up with my jest in Map20 :D
  07) Being a good sport and putting up with me :D
  08) Coming up with the idea for Sauron's Gauntlet
  09) Being DVII's technical support
  10) Organizing the release content of DVII-1i.zip/DVII-1u.zip

  Mike is essentially the backbone of DVII. His technical knowledge allowed
  me to test DVII under some ridiculous situations, like bypassing my
  university's firewall. Between the hundreds of hours of voicechat and 
  thousands of instant messages and scores of emails, DVII became a 
  continually evolving project open to rigorous inspection. Mike pretty much
  reported back the tiniest error on the map, the gameplay sticking points,
  glitches, and many other anomalies that would have went unnoticed without 
  a second opinion.

  Due to many of his ideas and suggestions, like Sauron's Gaunlets and
  Hell's Vendetta, DVII underwent drastic changes... in the most wonderful 
  way.

  Mike is a notorious archivist, having scores of old DVII builds burned 
  away on DVDs. I have instructed Mike during the development of DVII to
  release the latest build in the event of my death. Thankfully that
  protocol has never been necessary ^_^.

  Mike also served as a frequent middleman between the rest of the testers 
  and I, relaying back the issues brought up by Belial and Anima while I 
  was in class or at work.

  Mike was the creator of batch files, installation instructions, demo
  recording instructions and file organization structure of 
  DVII-1i.zip/DVII-1u.zip.

  I don't know how many times the words "bastard," "asshole," "faggot," 
  and various obscenities were exchanged during the countless hours of 
  conversation between Mike and I, but one thing is certain: in DVII, the 
  Mapper and Tester communicated until we know each other's eating and 
  sleeping habits. This comfortable working relationship allowed for open 
  rapport and report on the project in depth. Because of Mike's excellent
  communication, DVII isn't a basement laboratory experiment by some mad 
  scientist, it is a mod subjected to thousands of trials with brutally 
  candid feedback; if something sucks, even a just little, I'll hear it no
  sooner than a thunderclap, and I'm certain it will show in the gameplay. 
  Hats off to the main tester!


+ RICHIE "RAGNEW" AGNEW for:
  1) Early DVII testing
  2) My cheering section :)

  Richie was the main tester for the original Deus Vult, and when DVII was
  first conceived in 2004, he tested the hell out of it.

  Richie's early DVII testing gave several of the earlier maps like Mutagen
  and Eagle's Nest a good polishing. I'd also like to thank him for his 
  constant encouragement and enthusiasm that drove my effort. Honestly,
  many of the earlier maps for DVII was just to impress Richie and only
  Richie... and for this, he is a huge part of DVII!

+ DEREK BRAUN for:
  1) Early DVII testing
  2) Earlier contributions to DVII (including a map that never was)

  Derek was once a mapper for DVII, but later on became a cooperative tester
  for many of DVII's map, especially Stargate. Derek is a cool guy, he's
  pretty laid back, and was the one who introduced me to the Doom megawad
  Kama Sutra, to which we frequently co-oped in the past. To his doing, Kama
  Sutra's gameplay elements were eventually picked up and merged into DVII.

  Derek, I hope you make good HL2 maps, because I'm hopping aboard soon!


+ PRZEMYSAW "BELIAL" WODA for:
  1) Playtesting the near-final version of DVII
  2) Pointing out improvements in Map23, especially the cleric fight
  3) Bug-catching
  4) Crazy-ass dooming skills, I mean, who the hell UV-max DV Map04 in less
     than 11 minutes?
  5) Advocation of extreme difficulty increase in many maps
  5) Providing UV-Max demos for DVII

  One of the testers who jumped onto the DVII playtesting bandwagon in
  December of 2007. Belial probably understand the DVII maps better than I
  understand it myself. Ripping into the secrets faster than I could hide
  them, Belial's playtesting of DVII was brief but provided potent insight
  into the gameplay dynamic of the maps he touched upon. 

  Hell's Vendetta gameplay would probably be loose as a goose if it weren't 
  for Belial's grievances on how easy the earlier versions were in terms of 
  enemy count and health distribution.

  Looking at Belial's demos, I'd have to say his Dooming skills are insanely
  good, no... Godlike. Belial literally tears into the hell levels like a
  child into Christmas gift wrap. In his UV-MAXes, his ingame movements 
  are extremely quick and precise, and takes the viewer on a first-rate
  rampage through the most violent parts of DVII. Maps that were supposed to
  take hours to complete were taken apart in a matter of fifteen minutes by 
  Belial. To simply put, Belial is my current Doom God.

  Thanks to Belial's testing of DVII, the later maps on UV will get really
  nasty with extra hot sauce :)


+ BRIAN "ANIMA ZERO" NESSER for:
  1) Playtesting the near-final version of DVII
  2) Bug-catching
  3) Difficulty Moderation in many maps
  4) Providing UV-Max Demos for DVII
  5) Passing The DVII Exam

  One of the testers who jumped onto the DVII playtesting bandwagon in
  December of 2007. Anima served as the moderator of DVII's difficulty
  alongside Belial. Anima's grievances on the eight cyberdemons on the
  West wing of Hell's Vendetta led to toning down on that particular part of
  the map, which currently unleashes six (instead of eight) cybers on the
  player's ass. A nice contribution, since DVII's extreme difficulty 
  called for normalization at times.

  Anima also discovered some neat shortcuts for many of the maps, including
  the acid-plunge teleport leap of faith for Eagle's Nest.

  Anima's runs improved as he recorded more and more demos for DVII, with 
  his ultimate achievement resulting in a sub-six minute UV-Max for the 
  insanely difficult Map22, which earned him the honor of being the first 
  Doomer to pass The DVII Exam!


+ FREDRIK JOHANSSON for:
  1) Creating Vrack3 MIDI soundtrack
  2) Creating Vrack3, a huge influence to my Stargate Map
  3) Creating those wonderful tech textures, without Vrack3,
     Stargate would probably not exist. Way to pioneer new Doom
     themes, Fredrik!

  Fredrik was not directly involved in the development or testing of DVII,
  but his works have influenced many of the design concepts of my mod that 
  he HAS to be mentioned in my list of personal thank yous.

  Fredrik's Vrack3 was the basis for Stargate, and many of Vrack3's complex
  conveyor belt-based triggers were studied and applied to DVII's maps.
  Vrack3's design proportions were also scrutinized down to the last unit
  as well. In fact, when I was developing stargate, I'd have Vrack3 opened
  side-by-side in Doom Builder just to compare corridor widths.

  Fredrik's textures from Vrack3 also aided DVII's tech levels in a huge 
  way, as its architecture benefitted from motifs such as laser grids,
  railings, metals, computers, and many other installations that would have
  been nonexistent without Fredrik's discoveries. 


+ HUBERT VU for:
  1) DVII cooperative testing
  2) Coming up with the idea for the Balrog Chase
  3) Initiated the usage of Boom Triggers in DVII

  My tricky cousin deserves credit for trying to break DVII's
  cooperative mode, to which this prick suceeded by using the most 
  cheesy and perverse gameplay tactics. 

  When encountering a trap, Hubert basically tries to weasel his way out of
  the fight by standing inside closing doors, whizzing past teleporting
  enemies, and finding cheap, impenetrable alcoves for cover. Many times
  over, his cheapo tactics would result in permanently barricaded areas that 
  prevented any legitimate progression and ultimately break cooperative 
  mode.

  His tricky style of play is a blessing in disguise, as it exposed many
  game-breaking moments in cooperative DVII that were eventually fixed.

  The Balrog Chase was originally his idea as well, but I being his older 
  (and wiser) cousin made sure that it was executed correctly, as seen in
  Map22.

  Actually, Hubert isn't as bad as the above passages suggest. He's actually
  quite brilliant in pushing the extrema of the levels' gameplay mechanic, a
  potential speedrunner who doesn't play enough Doom...

  It was Hubert who first suggested the usage of Boom triggers back in 2005,
  and ran me through it, I was impressed enough and applied them to DVII 
  from that point on. Who knows what DVII would've been like without 
  Hubert... The Balrog Chase would've likely been non-existent, and DVII 
  would still be using vanilla-Doom compatible triggers... heh.


+ ANDREY "ENTRYWAY" BUDKO for:
  1) Creating the PrBoom sourceport
  2) Last minute help with DVII compatibility with sourceport
  3) Last minute Tech support

  Andrey came in at the last minute and helped me include a stellar version
  of PrBoom-Plus 2.4.8.3-Test as part of the DVII release. His last minute
  tech support ensured that DVII received the highest degree of 
  compatibility. The UV-Max demos will live forever thanks to him and 
  PrBoom+ :)


[10.3 Doomers and their projects that influenced DVII]
------------------------------------------------------

Adolf "Gusta" Vojta
- Kama Sutra

Alexander "Eternal" S. (AKA Deadall)
- Epic.wad

Anders Johnsen
- Alien Vendetta

Anthony Soto
- AV Map06: Hillside Siege

B.P.R.D
- Equinox
- Fritter.wad
- Grove.wad
- Nuts2.wad
- Nuts3.wad

Brad "Vorpal" Spencer
- Hellcore

Daniel "Tormentor667" Gimmer
- City of the Damned
- Ultimate Torment and Torture

Devon "Darkfyre" West
- Hellcore

Epsi
- Ruma

Erik Alm
- One Bloody Night Episode 1
- Scythe
- Scythe II

Fredrik Johansson
- Vrack2b.wad
- Vrack3.wad

Haggay Niv
- Hell Revealed

Ichor
- 1Monster Map24: The One God

Jakub "Method" Razak
- Kama Sutra

Jonas Feragen
- Hell Revealed II

Kim "Mutator" Malde
- Alien Vendetta

Kristian Aro
- Brotherhood of Ruin

Lee Szymanski
- AV Map06: Hillside Siege

Malcolm Sailor
- ChordG.wad
- Chord3.wad

Martin Aalen Hunsager
- Alien Vendetta

Mattias Berggren
- Alien Vendetta

Michael Reed
- Hoover Dam

Robert "Fusion" Babor
- Hellcore

Roger Ritenour
- Phobos

Russell Pearson
- Doom Raider: Crypt of the Vile

Ryathaen
- 1Monster Map22: Triad of the Minds

Stephen "Scuba Steve" Browning
- Action DooM

TeamTNT
- The Plutonia Experiment

Yonatan Donner
- Hell Revealed



----------------
[11] LEGAL STUFF
----------------

    11.1  Original Resources
    11.2  Modified Resources
    11.3  Borrowed Resources
    11.4  Usage of Resources

A follower of Hacker Ethics, I'm not too big on protection of resources, 
paperwork, and those uncool things, but I do believe in acknowledgement 
and lots of them. The following sections describe the sources of my 
resources.

[11.1 Original Resources]
-------------------------

Original Resources pertain to stuff that I made from scratch, or 
contributed enough effort into modifying the resource(s) to call my own.

- CANDLE SPRITES: are made by me in Adobe Photoshop CS2 9.0! I always 
  thought the default black candles look like some sort of tech light, and 
  wasn't very convincing. And for my hell theme, red candles were called 
  for, so I made large red candles that can't be mistaken for anything else
  but candles, even when seen from far away.
  
  Anyways, if you PLAN on using this candle for your mod, it would make me 
  happy if you GIVE ME CREDIT for it... I hope my red candle will replace 
  that little black Doom candle in the future!

- STARGATE: Made from scrap SHAWN0 metal that got melted into a donut mold. 
            Seriously though, you'll have to see the stargate yourself. I 
            wouldn't have made it if I didn't enjoy looking at it :)
            Made with Adobe Photoshop

- The following illustrations are hidden away ingame inside easter egg 
  secrets are 100% original and is my work (with exception where applies), 
  they include...

  CITRIC ACID CYCLE DIAGRAM: After my biotechnology research in Howard
  Summer 2007                University of Washington DC, I
  Adobe Illustrator          prepared to transition from the field of
                             architecture into molecular sciences, this
                             diagram was one of my "practice" model for
                             remembering and understanding the citric
                             acid cycle, one of the major metabolic
                             pathways of the cells of aerobic organism.

  EXPLODED CELL PHONE DIAGRAM: My final project for ARCH-210. The bottom
  Winter 2007                  part of the phone was totally made up and
  Mechanical Pencil            looked nothing like the real thing; I
                               temporarily lost my cell phone and had to
                               improvise something fast. It was drawn with
                               a mechanical pencil and ruler, hardcore
                               eh?
    
  KENDOKA ILLUSTRATION: My last project related to architecture, The Kendoka
  Spring 2007           was inspired by a similar illustration on
  Mechanical Pencil     Wikipedia by Ningyou. It also conveyed a nonverbal
  Adobe Illustrator     message on how I feel about the UW's architecture
  Adobe Photoshop       program after being subjected through the stupid
                        and tedious prerequisites! Get back! GET BACK!!!
                        The Kendoka is first seen in the the dojo of Map03,
                        and reappear as a high resolution mural in the
                        secret of Eagle's Nest as well.
 
  CACTUS ILLUSTRATION: ARCH-210 project. I like it, drawn from scratch, 
  Winter 2007          prickly, green, fits the limited Doom Pallette,
  Colored Pencils      'nuff said.

  SOME BLOCK STRUCTURE ILLUSTRATION: Part of a project that involves
  Spring 2007                        embodying an idea through a structure.
  Mechanical Pencil                  My idea was Prometheus' Torch. Drawn
  Adobe Photoshop                    by hand and colored in Photoshop.

  DANCING COUPLE DRAWING: This drawing was created by myself and a friend of
  Spring 2007             mine. I was responsible for the man, and her for
  Mechanical Pencil       the woman. We implemented many of our features
                          into the subjects we were drawing. Notice that
                          in the earlier drafts, the man's hand is all over
                          the woman. I had loads of fun making this one ;)

  MASTER CHIEF MEETS MARIO DRAWING: Made for co-tournament of Super Smash
  Fall 2007                         Melee and Halo3. Imitates Michaelangelo
  Permanent Markers                 with the Finger of God and Adam. Was
                                    extremely popular with the crowd.
                                    This drawing is mostly mine; the hands
                                    of Mario and Master Chief was drawn by
                                    the same friend who helped me with the
                                    Dancing Couple drawing. She was also
                                    responsible for coloring the posters as
                                    well, which explains the blonde hair
                                    on Mario; she doesn't play video games
                                    much. Mario's hair is brown, Ingrid!
  
- The SUZZALLO LIBRARY PHOTOS: Found in the secret basement of the Unholy 
  Fall 2006                    Cathedral, I took those and darn it, they are 
  35mm B&W Film                mine! My professor thought I did a pretty 
                               good job with the photos and gave me an A 
                               for his 400-level Architecture Class.
             
- VARIOUS BANNERS: In the Unholy Cathedral, stuff like the leatherized 
                   portrait of Dante Alighieri, are originals from me, some 
                   of which are in-game, some of which are in the texture 
                   resource.

- PLANET HELL: The planet you see inside the stargate exit of Map20 is a
               Modification of a satellite photograph of the Jovian moon,
               Io. I modified its surface, color content, and shading to
               the point that it resembles a boiling, roiling Mars.

- INTERPIC, TITLESCREEN, CREDIT, DVII AVATAR, and so forth.

This list isn't all-inclusive; I probably made a bunch more stuff in DVII
and forgot to claim them as mine... in which case, meh.


[11.2 Modified Resources]
-------------------------

Modified Resources includes recolored textures, sprites, online images made 
into grahics, and so forth.

- The Eye of Sauron
- The Sauron Statue
- The Witch King Statue
- The Angel Statue
- The classical paintings in the cathedral
- BioLab textures from Equinox
- The gazillion textures that got resized
- The bajillion textures that got recolored into Red, Green, Blue, 
  and Yellow

This list isn't all-inclusive, because I'm a scatterbrain.


[11.3 Borrowed Resources]
-------------------------

- Afterglow's Textures
- Alien Vendetta Textures
- Blood Textures
- B.P.R.D's Textures
- Doom Raider: Crypt of the Vile's Textures
- Duke Nukem Textures
- Equinox Textures
- Fredrik Johansson's Textures from Vrack3
- Hexen Textures & Sprites
- Quake Textures
- Quake III Textures
- Renaissance Paintings
- Witchaven Textures & Sprites

This list isn't all-inclusive, since I tend to borrow stuff and forget
their source(s).


[11.4 Usage of Resources]
-------------------------

"Authors MAY use the contents of this file as a base for modification or
reuse. Permissions have been obtained from original authors for any of
their resources modified or included in this file."

...What this essentially means is that you already have full permission to 
take DVII's resources apart unrestrictively without asking. I support your 
endeavor and both the text and I give you full consent to use DVII's 
resources in your project to the fullest extent.

Share DVII's resources, modify them if you want, and give credit when 
they're due. Don't make a profit out of them, be nice, you know the basics.

DVII doubles as a handy resource pack for your own usage :)



-------------------
[12] QUICK OVERVIEW
-------------------

Primary purpose         : Single + co-op play
Title                   : Deus Vult II
Filename                : DVII.wad
Author                  : Huy Pham
Email Address           : BusyBeaverHP@GMail.com


* What is included *

New levels              : Yes
Sounds                  : Yes
Music                   : Yes
Graphics                : Yes
Dehacked/BEX Patch      : Yes, exists as a lump inside DVII.WAD


* Additional Requirements *

Other files required    : Doom2.wad
Other executables req.  : A Sourceport
Sourceport Requirements : 32768 Limit-Removal, Boom-Compatible


* Play Information *

Game                    : Doom II
Recommended Sourceports : ZDoom 2.2.0, GZDoom 1.1.0, PrBoom-Plus 2.4.8.3-Beta
Single Player           : Yes
Cooperative 2-4 Player  : As important as single-player
Deathmatch 2-4 Player   : NOT designed for; starts only
Other game styles       : None
Difficulty Settings     : Adjustable for Skills 1, 2, 3, & 4

Map01 : Entryway Pass
Map02 : Mutagen
Map03 : Crouchin Demon, Hidden Archvile
Map12 : Minas Morgul
Map13 : Eagle's Nest
Map19 : Stargate
Map20 : Desert Temple
Map21 : The Unholy Cathedral
Map22 : You Shall Not Pass!
Map23 : Hell's Vendetta
Map31 : The Manliest Fight Ever

* Copyright / Permissions *

Authors MAY use the contents of this file as a base for modification or
reuse. Permissions have been obtained from original authors for any of
their resources modified or included in this file.

You MAY distribute this file, provided you include this text file, with no
modifications. You may play with yourself as long as you want. You may 
distribute this file in any electronic format (BBS, Diskette, CD, etc) as 
long as you include this file intact. I have received permission from the 
original authors to poke my special place, repeatedly. I have received 
permission from the original authors of any modified or included content in 
this file to allow further distribution.

Textfile co-created by Huy Pham & Mike Essler

* Where to get the file that this text file describes *

The Usual: ftp://archives.3dgamers.com/pub/idgames/ and mirrors

