PWAD - Deus Vult (DV.WAD)
FILE - DV03-UVMAX1.lmp
Type - UV MAXDEMO (100/100)
Map  - Map03 (Cathedral)
Port - Zdoom 2.63
Plr  - Converted Doomer

Kills  - 100%
Items  - 92%
Secret - 100%

Time   - 31:56

Description : A deadly/beautiful level that keeps the player fighting against death at every turn. When I 
              first made this section of Deus Vult, I meant for it to be hard, but when I started to demo 
              for Cathedral, hard was an understatement--murderous is more like it. Here's the three main
              hoops o' fire o' death:

1) The Cathedral Fight: It's like the Hell Temple fight in Map 01, on steroids, upon pressing the skull
                        switch on the podium and bringing it on urself, two cyberdemons warps in and
                        condescend over the whole crowd, and three hundred monsters starts to fill the
                        cathedral's base plus thirty mancubis outside the entrance. Archviles swamps 
                        everywhere, and your four chances of survival lies in the pillar with the invuln
                        spheres. Normally, one invuln for a large fight is enough... this fight is
                        different. It's nuts.wad married to Alien Vendetta, the fight just keeps on
                        steaming forwards; you think the enemy warping stops, it starts again. It's
                        ludicrous.

2) The Revenant Curve: Think the revenant scene from Anders Johnsen's AV29, now double the number of
                       the bastards, curvier and finer architecture, and you get this fight. As a rule 
                       of thumb for DV: the more beautiful the scenery, the deadlier it becomes. The
                       Revenant Curve is perhaps one of DV's toughest fights.

3) The Cyberdemon Guards: 6 Cyberdemons, poorly lit cathedral, precariously placed items; this can only mean
                          one thing: rocket-splattering death. Just be careful.

Man... what the hell was I thinking?

Good luck fighting this map on UV,
--Huy

Richie : Man, Huy really did a great job on this!! Both map and demo wise... I'd have to say that my 
favorite part(s) of the map would be the following...

1) Cathedral Fight : Very, very cool... :) All I can say!! I repeatidly had to save one of the Invulns
   for the Revenant pool inspired by Ander's Map29 in AV!!! I always get hammered in that part of t
   the map.... He handles it like a pro...

2) The Revenant Pool : This is the hardest part of the map in my eyes!! I always get way laid on this
   area, and I'm sure it'll happen at least once to every player out there... You just have no idea
   what your about to face!!!

Seems like the "3rd times the charm" isn't always the way it goes... In Huy's case, it seems that the
40th times the charm... :) Cool Demo...

