PWAD - Deus Vult (DV.WAD)
FILE - DV04-UVMAX1.lmp
Type - UV MAXDEMO (100/100)
Map  - Map04 (End of Days)
Port - Zdoom 2.63
Plr  - Ragnew

Kills  - 100%
Items  -  88%
Secret - 100%

Time   - 25:31

Description :

Okay, so first of all, I thought this map was WAY too hard, but then I actually sat down 
and tried to play it... :) And low and behold, its a very, very FUN and KICK ASS level!!!
The start can be pretty frantic, but what else would you expect after playing all of Huy's
levels before this? There are many, many places that'll wax you if your not careful.... 
These would have to be the hardest parts in my eyes...

1) The Final Hell Temple : You'll know it when you see it!! All I can say is use the shield
   objects to your advantage... They WILL save your life. And make sure you use the invuln.
   at the right moment... Use it too soon, and your history... Vice versa, if you try to
   use it too late, then bad things happen as well. Watch the damn Viles, and make sure you
   hide whenever they start to attack you...

2) The Stairway up to Upper Lava River : I don't know why this is so hard, but it is... All
   those damn Viles popping up at the wrong times can make life miserable... And make sure
   you use the final Invuln to kill off ALL the cyberdemons in the final area of the river.

3) The Final Area where you get to "poke out the eye" : You've got to get all the ammo on 
   the platform before you drop into the pit. There is NO ammo in the final room, and you
   need to use the Cyberdemon and Spider Mastermind to your advantage. The only rad suit is
   located in the back of the "Eye of Sauron" platform... Make sure you get this, but not
   while theres a ton of monsters around it. That would be bad dying so close to finishing
   this monster... :)

Well, thats about it for me. I hope you all enjoy the demo(s), and make sure you play the
maps before you actually have to watch these recordings... They're pretty much here to show
that these levels are completable from a pistol start on UV... Now, get onto playing the 
damn thing will you... :) 

Laters,
- Richie

Huy: "End of Days" basically brings out what Deus Vult really is: A fun knockout map with a slight 
     edge of difficulty to keep the players on their toes. Rich really outdid himself this time;
     after observing his demo, I thought, "I could do that, I could do that better!!". Contrary to 
     the easy appearance, I got creamed on this map real fast =) It's not as difficult as Map02 or Map03,
     but should give the player a few jolts here and there if they're not careful, Right... Rich?

