!WARNING! Thar be spoilers ahead!





* FAQ-type thing *

Yeah, some questions aren't in question form, but who cares?


--Generic questions:

Q: Help, my weapons won't fire!
A: That's probably because you don't have any ammo in them currently.
   You need to bind a key to reload, using the customize controls
   menu. When you pick up a gun, it will not be loaded, so hit that
   reload button ASAP!

Q: This wad is too hard!
A: In that case, I've succeeded. This wad is by no means a walk in
   the park. If you find it too hard, even on "I'm too young to die",
   then sorry. I mean, it doesn't touch wads such as Hell Revealed
   and Alien Vendetta, but hey, the reload system makes things
   quite a bit more challenging. :P

Q: Why is there way too much ammo and not enough health?
A: I like making my wads difficult due to lack of health, not lack
   of ammo. Even at low health, a good enough player can still
   survive just fine, but there are only a select few that can
   still play good without ammo (and I don't belong to that
   particular group). In some of the later maps in particular,
   you'll find it nearly impossible to run out of ammo for a few
   guns in particular. This is completely intentional, since on
   those maps, you'll be fighting so many enemies that you'll be
   thankful for the extra help!

Q: The wad keeps crashing randomly with strange error logs!
A: The problem is most likely your version of ZDoom. One of the
   "unofficial" releases had a major error in the expression
   evaluator or something, which caused completely random
   crashes that seemed to happen on every wad. However, by the
   time you read this text, the newest version fixes this problem,
   so you shouldn't have to worry about random crashes. If you
   are suffering from them, just upgrade to the newest Official
   release (2.1.0 or later). That should fix the problem.

Q: What's with this objective system I see mentioned?
A: Ah, check your controls config window. As of version 2.5,
   Zen features a full-fledged objectives display screen. Bind
   a key to toggle the objectives (default is "F" if you don't
   have anything already bound there). If you feel lost and don't
   know what to do, give the objective screen a look-see. Maybe that
   will help out a bit. :P



--Map-specific questions:

INTRO MAP:

Q: Help, the text is too small to read!
A: You need a resolution of 800x600 or higher. Any smaller, and it
   tries to scale the text down, which never ends up looking good.

Q: How do I advance to the next screen?
A: Just the use button. Nothing special here. :P


MAP01: LABORATORY

Q: What do I do after hitting the switch past the elevator?
A: A door has opened in the hallway next to the starting point. Just
   hit the switch in there. :P

Q: Okay, I've used the blue switch to raise the acid. Now what?
A: That grate blocking the way is openable. After raising the acid
   stuff, you can swing the grate open like a standard door.


MAP02: URBAN DOOM

Q: What's the purpose of re-activating the lift?
A: Well, if you decide to jump down and get that shotgun, you can
   get back up faster... that's about it. :P

Q: What do I do after hitting the switch past the yellow door?
A: A small door has opened outside, next to where the starting
   point is. Just follow the sounds of the demons... :P

Q: How do I get back up out the door after getting the Red Key?
A: Look closely. You can jump up the ledge leading up to the door
   you came in from. Just try it. :P

Q: How do I get to the uber-secret exit?
A: See the Map08 section below... it's not all that hard, really.


MAP03: REFINERY

Q: How do I get the big secret in this level?
A: This one's kind of weird. After getting the red key and heading
   through the teleporter, you might notice a switch on the wall
   that wasn't there before. Press it and quickly look across the
   computer consoles that block your path to the next room. A tiny
   door has opened revealing another switch. Shoot it. This opens
   a door in that room reveling a weapon and an Imp Warlord.

   Now, this brings up the question of how to get back there. The
   teleporter at the start that originally led to that part of
   the map has been closed, so now what? Well, after you get the
   yellow key and kill the boss, and BEFORE you open the yellow
   door, go back to the room where you shot the switch from far
   away. Now, the computer consoles have lowered, allowing you
   to pass and collect the weapon: a Fusion Cannon. Don't be
   squeamish on using up your ammo, because you'll lose all your
   guns anyway upon entering the next level. :P


MAP04: CITY OF DIS

Q: Hey, where'd all my weapons go?
A: Ever played Doom3? You lost all your weapons traveling through
   the gateway to Hell. Don't worry, you'll get them back soon
   enough. :P

Q: What are these green "Plasmatic Fusion Cell" things lying around?
A: These things are ammo for the Fusion Cannon, the most powerful
   weapon (which you will first find in the next level, assuming you
   didn't already find the Map03 secret. :P ). There are only 15
   shots in the whole game (not counting Map03 and Map00), so make
   them count! The locations of all 15 are listed below in the
   weapons section.

Q: How do I get the "Bloodsphere" mentioned at the beginning?
A: For that, you need to find the secret level. See the Map00
   section below for details how.


MAP05: SHADOWRUN

Q: How do I get the two Plasmatic Fusion Cells in the big dark room?
A: There is a switch in on the side of one of the pillars in the
   Yellow key room, which lets you access the area with the Cells.


MAP06: THE MALEBOLGE

Q: How do I reach the exit?
A: Okay, this one's a bit tricky, so here's what you gotta do...
   After pressing the switch behind the red door and fighting the
   enemies, notice how there is a pathway leading to that teleporter
   that was too high to reach. Enter the teleporter and run along
   the red brick pathway. From here, jump down to the pit labeled
   "Exit". That should do it. :P


MAP07: DEATH SENTENCE

Q: Why do I no longer have the Scorcher?
A: Er, uh... Divine intervention? Actually, it's simply removed because
   it makes the level way too easy to beat. :P

Q: How do I beat the final boss?
A: See the enemy section for a few random tips about both boss
   fights. Just get their health bar down to zero. :P

Q: How do I get the secret ending?
A: Explore around after beating the last boss, instead of entering
   the exit teleporter. You'll find it. :P


MAP08: CORE ZERO

Q: How do I reach this level?
A: This level's secret exit resides in Map02: Urban Doom.
   The path to the secret level is a bit odd, but still do-able. Right after
   you nab your brand-new Assault Rifle, backtrack into the previous room and
   check the central pillar. Notice how one section is lighter than the rest?
   Shoot it. This, in turn, raises a strange object outside -- a bounce pad.
   Use the pad to rocket up to the little niche in the building above, and
   grab the goodies here. In this secret, once you defeat the level's boss,
   the little panel on the floor will open up another secret passageway.
   From here, it's a straight shot to the exit... enjoy the surprise
   elevator ride. :P

Q: Is there any possible way to skip the weapon vaporization at the start?
A: Nope. As Agent Smith would say, it is inevitable. :P

Q: The knife fight is too hard! Any tips?
A: Firstly, get to know the ins-and-outs of the Machete, how to use it and
   some such. Mastery of the block is not necessary to beat it, but it does
   help. For the small groups, the rapid-stab is your friend, and for the
   larger baddies, get used to running in, slashing, and getting back out
   before you're toast. Practice makes perfect, my friend.

Q: What's with the nonlinearity?
A: Why not? There exist two main pathways through the level, either the
   direct route through the complex, or the back way in, through the water
   canals. Although you only need to travel one direction, both paths
   eventually meet up and you need to go both ways if you want to get back
   all your weapons again. :P

Q: How do I beat this level and what the devil is the reactor for?
A: Simple... your objective is to destroy the reactor and get out. Easy, right?
   HELL NO. After the core is nuked, there is a mere 20-second delay before the
   entire base (and you) go up in smoke. Although the reactor is easily
   accessible near the beginning, you need to clear a direct path to the exit
   hatch before you light the match... otherwise it's lights out!

Q: Why does the scenery in this map put all the other maps to shame?
A: TRICK QUESTION. Ask Zero Prophet. :P


MAP00: LOST STATION

Q: How do I reach this level?
A: As of version 2.5, the way to find the secret exit is a lot more
   complex, yet much less cryptic. There are three steps involved in finding
   the exit, all of which reside in Map04: 

  1: Firstly, you need to find the Soulsphere secret in the brown marble
   building. This is done by first shooting a switch through the barred windows
   (not really that hard to miss). In the room with the assault rifle, one of
   the pillars now sports a brand-spanking new switch. Flick it and enter the
   hidden door that opens. The switch here lowers an elevator that leads
   to the adjacent room. Proceed there and take the elevator up, switching off
   the bars. As you re-enter the room, the pillar with the soulsphere will
   finally lower, allowing you to grab it (and the fusion cell nearby).

  2: After the soulsphere is history, a new hidden door has opened... the switch
   that raised the first bridge to the yellow key has now opened up to reveal
   a red door. Note that this door will not appear if the yellow key has not
   been acquired yet. Anyway, proceed through the level as usual until you get
   the red skullkey. Now, it's backtrack time... the door opens up to reveal
   a few goodies, as well as a real prize--a floor switch. Step on it to unlock
   the final piece to the puzzle...

  3: At the very final segment of the level (below the coffin staircase), one
   of the formerly blocked off passages has been opened. Simply travel through
   the newly-formed hallway until you reach another coffin staircase leading
   upwards... head through the door in this room (to a familiar place) and
   traverse the hallway. At the end is a transparent door... using it will
   instead open up the one visible on the other side. Simply backtrack to that
   position and fall through the odd hole in the floor...
   Welcome to the Lost Station!

Q: How do I get past the broken doors in the 1st building?
A: You see those small walkways near the top of the building? You need
   to get on the right one of those. The way to get up there is sitting
   right in front of you. Just think for a few seconds. :P

Q: I'm stuck in the part of the map after the blue door after the Blood-
   sphere. I entered a tiny cave room, but there doesn't seem to be any
   place to go in here!
A: One of the metal blocks that make up the walls of the surrounding
   rooms (the one next to the marine corpse) seems to be pushed into
   the wall a little bit. This block can be pushed. Walk up to it and
   press use in order to move it back a little bit. You need to push it
   multiple times, until you can finally enter the next room.

Q: Where do I get the Plasmatic Fusion Cells in this map?
A: There are six of them, all in the room with the Yellow Key and the
   laser trap. There is one on each of the six spots where the lasers
   impact, so you have to time it right in order to get them all!

Q: I made it back to the start of the map, but it won't let me exit!
A: That's because you lost the bloodsphere. If you throw it and it
   gets stuck in a position you can't reach, you're basically screwed.
   That is completely intentional in this map, though. Just make darn
   sure to have it by the end of the level!


--Enemy-related questions:

Q: The Cacophytes' fireballs are way too fast!
A: Due to a couple of people constantly nagging me about this, I've
   tuned down the speed of the Cacophyte fireballs. I changed their
   speed from 20 to 19, so I hope you're all happy now. :P

Q: The Maelstroms (white skull head things) suck badly!
A: Yes, their electric attack is a pain, but that's what makes this
   monster so special. Don't worry, you usually never find these
   guys in large quantities, and at least they tend to hit other
   monsters as well, causing major chaos. :P

Q: I can't seem to kill the Hell's Batteries. I keep running out of ammo!
A: These guys are invulnerable while they're firing at you with that
   device attached to their back. At this point, you should probably
   concentrate on dodging. :P

Q: The final boss always kills me in one hit!
A: Don't get hit, then! He's the final boss, he's supposed to be that
   powerful. :P

Q: How do I beat the final boss?
A: There's nothing special you really need to do besides use your most
   powerful weapons on him while he's in the arena (the Nailgun is a
   good one), and when he teleports out, concentrate on the spawned
   monsters and eliminate as many before the boss teleports in. Yes,
   he is extremely hard. But then again, he is the final boss, so
   that's the whole point. :P


--Weapon-related questions:

Q: Where can I find all the Plasmatic Fusion Cells?
A: Here's a full list of their locations (Not counting Map03 or Map00):

   MAP04:
   1-Next to window in first building
   2-Behind waterfall in "Escher-style" brick building
   3-Brown marble building; secret soulsphere room
   4-Brown marble building; yellow key room (behind switch pillar)
   5-Easternmost font in Cathedral
   MAP05:
   6-Received upon picking up fusion cannon
   7-Same as above
   8-Ditto, mofo'.
   9-Secret Area in darkroom; hit switch in yellow key room to open
   10-Same as above
   MAP06:
   11-Upper floor of green building opposite of first building (take lift)
   12-Cavelike area with teleporter to Blue key room
   13-Top of red door-marked platform
   14-Tower past yellow door
   15-Lowering room right before exit (hidden in the blood)

Q: How does the Bloodsphere work?
A: The Bloodsphere is to Zen as what the Sigil was to Strife. It
   uses your health as ammo, but does a hell of alot of damage.
   Primary fire sends out a spray of blood that bounces around,
   for 5 units of health, and secondary fire throws it for 20
   units, causing an extremely massive explosion that can easily
   damage you if you're too close!

   Also, when you throw the bloodsphere, you can pick it up
   again from the place it landed. Take care not to throw it
   into a position you can't get it back from, since there is
   only one Bloodsphere in the game, so if you lose it, it's
   gone for good!

Q: How the hell do I use the new Machete?
A: The machete has now been reworked to posess different combos... If you've
   ever played Devil May Cry, you'll get how it works. After the second swing,
   the later you time your third swing, the different combo you'll get.
   Executing the third swing quickly gets you a simple three-slash combo.
   Waiting just a bit before swinging the third time is a five-hit
   "slash-slash-slashslash-finisher" combo. Finally, if you wait for an even
   longer time before the third swing, you'll get a very rapid stabbing
   motion ended with a forward thrust. Although it's a bit hard to understand,
   just experiment a while... you'll catch the drift. :P

   Also, the weapon's alt-fire is a reflective block ability... it takes some
   time getting used to, but always remember that it's better to start the block
   too early than too late!

Q: What the devil is this syringe-looking thing?
A: I see that you have discovered the brand-new prototype "Zen-Roids"
   performance enhancers... basically a concentrated mix of the power running
   in your character's veins. As for its use, think Berserk Pack. A quick
   injection with this baby will supercharge your melee attacks into something
   much, much more powerful than humanly possible. Although its effect is
   timed, use that extra muscle to slash away with your improved knife combos.
   Don't say I didn't warn you. :P



Okay, so that's all for the FAQ now. If I ever release any other
versions of Zen, I'll update this FAQ, assuming it even needs it. :P

In the mean time, have fun killing stuff!

-Xaser
