PWAD - DVII.WAD
FILE - dvii-19-1427-pw.lmp
Type - UV Max
Map  - 19
Port - PrBoom+ 2.4.8.1
Plr  - Belial

Kills   - 102%
Items   - 81%
Secrets - 100%

Time    - 14:27

Description:

When I first played it it took me almost an hour to beat this map. It's complexity
can be really intimidating before you get to know the map well. Once you play it
long enough you start to notice the amazing degree of connectivity involved in
making it as fun to play as possible. With each switch you hit new shortcuts open
up allowing quicker access to places already visited or in need of revisiting,
and that's what makes the map a 15-minute long vrackish thrillride.

The first part of the demo is pretty straightforward as there aren't many choices
you can make before you get to the SSG. The dual pistols come in handy here, letting
you deal with the zombies quickly while saving shells for other monsters. Infighting
and the strategically placed barrel can help save a lot of time at the CG. I don't
bother with killing the mancs and HKs in the SSG room since I'll be revisiting the 
area later. Instead I head for the blue key area. The first SSG blast that was 
supposed to hit the caco somehow triggered the final shootable switch in that area, 
so I was a bit surprised when the switch wasn't there. After clearing the blue
maze I head for the red one. The spider isn't much of a threat here, so you can safely
leave it for when you have the BFG. On the other hand the cyber that you'll encounter 
next can be a real problem if it fails to get into an infight with the barons, so I
make sure the barons have a chance of retaliating before I leave the area. The section
behind the blue key door is another fairly straightforward one. The rev+caco ambush
is the first fight that can be really deadly, a couple of hits in the back if the cacos
refuse to move away and you can start over and trying to mow the revs down with plasma
can be even more dangerous. There's no need to wait for all the mancs to arrive at the
RL and saving those rockets is more important at that time. In the YK room I keep
conserving rockets for the cyber room and switch to the SSG when my cells drop to 200
to have a full supply of them when I get to the BFG without having to grab any in the
BFG room itself. If all goes well the cyber should be wandering around the computer
map secret blocked off from the area it was originally in by the newly teleported mancs.
This part of the demo was quite unpleasant as I ate some archie blasts and had to grab
the supercharge early. I managed to get to the BFG safely though. Don't ask me what
happened with the secret switch here, I have no idea. Once the cyber is dead I pick
some archies off the balcony with the RL (making a careless mistake in the process) 
and use the invulnerability to get rid of the enemies in the SSG area followed by the 
revs and archies that teleported to the red maze teleporter room. Now it's time for
mopping up the leftovers. The spider is a breeze as long as it doesn't attack too early.
The mancs at the RL are easily reachable from stairs at the blue maze teleporter. 
Usually there aren't any monsters left on the lower floor after the invul+BFG run
but this time a lone HK that followed me into the supercharge and megaarmor secret
had to be taken care of. Beyond the 'point of no return' it's a walk in the park once
you get rid of the 3 archies, as there's plenty of health and ammo at the gate fight.
Just don't forget that you can skip the exit linedef if you wallrun all the way through
it :P

I'm really happy with this demo. Even after dozens upon dozens of practice runs I didn't
expect to get a first exit on the first recording attempt, especially one with a satisfying
time.

Przemyslaw "Belial" Woda
nowylepszyszatan@wp.pl