PWAD - DVII.WAD
FILE - dvii-13-1122-pw.lmp
Type - UV Max
Map  - 13
Port - PrBoom+ 2.4.8.1
Plr  - Belial

Kills   - 102%
Items   - 72%
Secrets - 100%

Time    - 11:22

Description:

At first I didn't really like the map. The linear mountain climb section with
such limited resources and space for movement combined with the foliage textures
blocking the view used to put me off. After some time I got used to playing that
part a bit more cautiously just get through it and enjoy the rest of the map.
At that point I was playing it with the 'intended' route, more or less the same
as the route that Anima used in his demo.

Then Huy introduced the speed shortcut and that opened up a new world of route
possibilities. The time improvement over the old route wasn't that significant
(a minute, more or less), but being able to tackle the mountain climb with full
health and better weapons and some help from the invulnerability sphere made it
much easier for me to enjoy playing it. Removing the tedious replaying of the
first part of the map when the somewhat luckbased cyber infighting tactic failed
was a nice bonus as well.

From the SSG on the lift I follow the same route that I used before the shortcut
was added. After the top of the mountain is clear I head for the yellow key,
grabbing the invul when necessary and starting an infight between the cyber and
the teleporting monsters. I use the remaining invul time to get rid of the archie
which tends to be the slowest point during the mountain climb. Once done I 'restart'
the map using the teleporter down below. When I get back to the top of the mountain
all that's left is finishing off the cyber and any remaining monsters in the YK
room and the HK siege. That secret isn't that hard if you know where to place
yourself to avoid the HOMs, though I still managed to miss the rocket box and lose
some health in the process. Once all the HKs are dead I ignore the normal way out
of the area and instead head for another one of the teleporters down in the acid
pool below. The archie at the berserk secret is a piece of cake without the hell
knights to support it. The final part is BFG slaughter, but you can't go crazy 
with it as the cell supply is quite limited to make sure the RL gets it's share 
of action as well. I almost screwed myself over with a poorly timed BFG shot at 
the rev curve archie, fortunately enough a wasted shot or two aren't that much 
of a problem in that area.

Przemyslaw "Belial" Woda
nowylepszyszatan@wp.pl